Q: Is there a way to fix these scratches on my MacBook Pro's screen? I have the Mid-2010 13" MacBook Pro. Sadly, the Keyboard Keys have caused some scratches in the screen, which is annoying as hell. (Yes, I know, I should use the white buffer sheet that came with it)
Is there a way to fix these scratches? Or so I need a really expensive replacement screen cover?
 

A: I'm surprised no else one has said it yet:
This is a nearly brand-new MacBook Pro still covered by warranty.
There is absolutely no reason that your keyboard keys should damage the display like that.  This is a design flaw that has existed in their laptops at least as far back as the PowerBook G4.  The keys should not touch the screen when the lid is closed under any circumstances, but they invariably do.
I have to clean my screen every few days to get rid of the keyboard imprints, but luckily have taken no damage to the screen (probably only because I use the awesome Moshi keyboard cover, which also saved my MBP from a hot tea disaster).
Take it to Apple and make them fix it under warranty!

A: If it’s only the glass and you don’t want apple to do it for you (and charge you accordingly) you can do it yourself. Get one of these (make sure it’s the right model for your macbook) and start unscrewing stuff :)
Remember that Apple does not sell these parts and therefore these are “copies” of it. According to every vendor “they are the same, they look the same, you won’t notice the difference”. But… they are vendors. I don’t have experience with these things. 
This Google Query may bring other results. It’s not impossible (I have opened a Macbook Pro Unibody) but it requires patience and the right tools. Check iFixIt for pictures of stripped Macbooks and possibly guides on how to “open them”. More specifically, check this area, where it explains how to change the front display glass.
Bear in mind that doing any of this will break your warranty. Unless you pay Apple to do it (and charge you accordingly).
I’d first go to an Apple Store and “ask” what are the options, they may be “cool” and give you a hand.

A: This might sound crazy, but I've fixed nasty scratches in CDs and DVDs with plain toothpaste. Not minty-gel-crystal-whitening-all-in-one toothpaste, just plain, humble, white chalk, flouride toothpaste (some do still exist in the major chain stores). Just a small amount buffed in with a cotton wash cloth did the trick. Maybe that would work here?

A: I had a scratch on my 27" Mac monitor. It is a glass screen and unfortunately the scratch was right in the middle and very distracting.
I too was very leery about putting toothpaste on my precious screen, but after googling around I was not getting any better answers so I decided to give it a try.
I took a little bit of toothpaste. It was not the "simple" kind of toothpaste mentioned above but one of the ones with all the other stuff added. I suspect the kind of toothpaste does not matter.
I used a piece of white computer paper to rub the toothpaste on the scratch. One YouTube video that I saw said paper worked better than tissue so I went with that. And the verdict? It works! If I look very closely I can still see the scratch but it is way better now. 
It took me about of 5-10 minutes of rubbing. I went pretty slow because I was paranoid that I was going to screw up my screen, but there do not seem to be any ill effects.
I strongly recommend you give this a try. Note that this will only work with glass screens.

A: This happened to me on two other notebooks. Fixing this is a pain and it's costly. Tried buffing, but it was not exactly successful. Replacing the screen was traumatic for me and expensive. I suppose that's why it was traumatic...
Although this might be considered a shameless plug, I created a product to prevent this stuff. Just launched it on IndieGoGo: igg.me/at/scudo
It's made from authentic Ultrasuede and called Scudo. The SRP is only $15, and just $10 during the campaign. This is about the only kind of thing that will prevent this from happening.
I hope this helps in the future. I really empathize with the angst.
