Q: Alternatives to command line unzip? I've found that the command line unzip tool doesn't gracefully handle some of the files I'm unzipping: it makes a bunch of junk directories, and creates files whose resource forks aren't found.  (Perhaps they were created strangely.)
$ unzip -d NEW-DIRECTORY ZIP

Anyways, using Archive Utility is a start, because I can run the following and it is close (and it doesn't mess up my files):
$ open -a "Archive Utility" ZIP

But this does not allow me to specify a new directory for the contents!!  It automatically puts them in the current directory. :P
What are my alternatives?

A: The Unarchiver has a beta version of their command line utility available on their downloads page.

A: I saw this extremely helpful answer to a problem I was having unzipping applications on another board from user patashnik:
unzip doesn't handle the embedded resourceforks in ZIP files created by the Finder. If you want to unarchive those files from the CLI, use ditto:
ditto -V -x -k --sequesterRsrc --rsrc FILENAME.ZIP DESTINATIONDIRECTORY

If you want to unpack the archive in the current directory, use . as DESTINATIONDIRECTORY

A: "The Unarchiver" is a great tool, and I highly recommend it, both the GUI and the CLI tools.
That said, my unzip command is
ditto -xk foo.zip target_dir

where 'target_dir' is the directory where I want the files to appear (and it can be '.' if you want them to unzip right there). 
Note that 'target_dir' will be created if needed. 
Also note that ditto does not mind overwriting files, so use with care.
ditto on Mac OS X is designed to preserve resource forks, etc. so it is my preferred method of unzipping files, especially because it ships with OS X by default.

A: 7z can handle some oddly zipped files

brew install p7zip
7z x weirdarchive.zip


A: you can use also: 


*

*yemuzip
and


*

*stuffit-expander (not free)


A: Springy is a very versatile unarchiver.  Shareware - and worth it to me.

A: brew install unar

and then:
unar foo.zip

