Q: Which are the OS X Dashboard Widgets you can't live without? I don't use widgets that much, but one particular widget makes the dashboard useful to me. That's iStat

iStat Pro is a highly configurable
  widget that lets you monitor every
  aspect of your Mac, including CPU,
  memory, disks, network, battery,
  temperatures, fans, load & uptime and
  processes. iStat Pro can do it all.

And it's FREE

Do you have one outstanding widget to share? How do you use it?
Please follow these simple rules:  


*

*Please search for duplicate answers before posting. You can search
this question like this: inquestion:this iStat Pro  

*Limit one dashboard widget per answer.   

*Add a link to the website in the name of the application if possible (no direct downloads).


A: Tea Timer

It's simply a timer. Notifies with:


*

*Sounds

*Speech

*Growl


Text completely customizable (food pictured). ready in can be changed to just in.

A: Delivery Status is a must-have if you routinely track packages:

I also use their iOS app and it all works spectacularly well, smart enough to change the delivery source based on what's your Clipboard.

A: I've become a huge fan of Loremify, a free widget that generates Lorem Ipsum text for you in either plain text or HTML of various flavors. As a front-end web developer, it's become THE single fastest way for me to quickly populate a page with dummy text for testing layouts.


A: I love Dictionary Widget.


A: iStat Nano


When iStat Pro feels just a bit overkill. When hovered over, you can change to a more detailed view.

A: Stickies
I myself use Sticky many times in a day.
 

A: WeekNumber
The calendar widget doesn't show the current week number. I am working in an office where everything is calculated in week numbers, so this widget is much useful to me. 


A: UNIX Permissions Calculator is a dashboard widget that translates UNIX file permissions between symbolic and octal formats. I find this very useful.

A: CSS Cheat Sheet
Displays the essential information from the CSS Cheat Sheet. On my job I use it. I can remember the most basic rules, but beyond that I need to look it up to be sure.


A: Milk the Cow, a task manager which interfaces with Remember the Milk. It helps me keep up with my todo list!


A: I used to use the NowPlaying widget all the time for seeing what shows were on my TiVo and downloading them to my Mac

I eventually set up a Linux virtual machine to run pytivo and Galleon, and that now automatically downloads from my TiVo for me and allows me to pull the media back if and when I want... so I don't use this widget much anymore.

A: Oblique Strategies
One of my favourite creativity-unleashing activities from one of my favourite artists, Brian Eno, Oblique Strategies makes a great widget. I use this all the time to kickstart the creative process. Sadly, it looks like CurvedSpace Software has folded and the original version is no longer available. You still seem to be able to get it from ZDNet and CNet though.

A: Radar in Motion
Free
Install it a few times and change map coverage to suit you. I live in Connecticut and find these two maps useful for coming weather. I've been using it for years and while its connections to weather service info sometimes drop out, it's been extremely useful for me.


A: I've also found myself using NetworkStat:

Seems a little stale, but works well for showing your current LAN/WAN IPs.  Sure, the excellent iStat widgets can show this info, but this is a little cleaner and easier to read quickly.

A: The MAMP Control widget comes in very handy for me to start and stop Apache and MySQL:


A: If you like to use Stickies, you should try StickiesPlus. It allows you to create a new sticky simply by OPT+clicking the widget.
Based on the Apple widget, free of course:
http://www.gatada.com/downloads/StickiesPlus.wdgt.zip

A: I love using Twidget. It let's you get to full Twitter access. Download here : http://www.gettwidget.com
Features
Displays 20 most recent public or friends timeline
Auto-refreshes timeline display
Easily show/hide timeline display
One-click refresh of timeline
Links to reply and Direct Message Twitter contacts
Link to mark tweets as "Favourite"
Recognizes replies and auto-links them to follow conversations
Shows your last tweet regardless of how it was updated (ie: mobile, txt, etc.)
Auto-notification of new versions of Twidget
Planned Features
Growl Notifications:Twidget will allow you to specify whether or not to notify you of tweets via Growl.
@Reply Highlight:Twidget will highlight tweets sent to you via @ replies.
Short URLs:Twidget will allow you to shorten lengthy URLs when sending status updates.
Resizable Widget:Twidget will support resizing of its main window.
Multiple Languages:Twidget will offer localized language support. If you'd like to translate Twidget into your language, please contact me: widgets@aquabox.ca
Direct Message Display:Twidget will display direct messages sent to you.
Audible Notifications:Twidget will allow you to specify whether or not to notify you of tweets through sounds.
[More information at the website]

A: This is one of my favorite calculator widgets, PEMDAS:
http://www.donkeyengineering.com/pemdaswidget/


A: I like BBC weather widget.
