Q: How to change the language of the App Store to be able to see accurate star ratings? I have an iTunes account with an Italian billing address; because of this Apple assumes that I want the app store in Italian which is not the case.
Part of the UI is in Italian (other parts are in English, go figure), the app descriptions and their reviews are in Italian, even the "Top apps" are the top apps in Italy instead of worldwide.
The biggest problem of all is that there is no way to see the ratings for apps without logging out first. This is a big inconvenience as almost all applications show up as having "no ratings" (as only local ratings and reviews are shown, which are very few and almost non existent).
This of course severely hinders my capability of knowing whether an app is good or not. Even the most popular apps have either 0 ratings or less than 5.
As an example, YNAB which currently has 1574 ratings when viewed from the English store shows up as "No Ratings" while I am logged in.
Is there any way to change the language to English, and see worldwide ratings without having to log out first?
EDIT: 6 years later, there appears to be still no solution.
EDIT 2: 10 years later, I just went to the US and opened a Wells Fargo account, and changed the credit card to that. Problem solved. Apple ‍♂️

A: iTunes always sets itself to the country your credit card belongs to. If you insist on the US store then you must use a US credit card.
You can't set this up directly on your phone. You must use iTunes on your computer to change this:
Click on your email address in the top right of iTunes to get to your account details, then click the "change" button next to your "Country/Region". Select a country for which you have (access to) a credit card. iTunes will ask you for credit card information when you save this country setting.

A: It seems to be possible for some countries, but most countries only have one (or few) native languages.
The table at the bottom of the above link lists which countries support which languages in iTunes.
Some oddities:


*

*Belgium supports both English and French (but not Dutch, which is one of their native languages).

*The Netherlands supports only Dutch (but not English).  

*Switzerland supports English, German and French (but not their native languages Italian, and Romansh).  

*Germany only supports German (but not English).


Go figure!
Note there have been many complaints about this on the apple forums already.
--jeroen

A: This is not an issue about the language of the UI but that the iTunes stores are country specific for legal reasons (e.g. taxes).
You cannot purchase anything from an iTunes store in a country you don't have a credit card in.  
But you can use the iTunes web interface to browse foreign iTunes stores.
For the US store you can go to http://itunes.apple.com/us/browse
For other countries just replace 'us' with the country code you like to view.

A: you can change the App Store in iTunes to use the store of another country. 
Click on iTunes Store (left menu in iTunes), then click the home button on the top. Scroll all the way to the bottom (page footer) and under Manage you will Change Country. There you can change it to whatever you want and the music, apps and other items will change accordingly
