Q: Is Apple's warranty international? I'm about to travel to the US, where iPods / AirPods / iPhone are much cheaper than in my country. 
I wonder if Apple's warranty is international, and/or what warranty coverage exists when I return to my country.
Where can I understand what Apple Warranty covers in the US when products leave the US?

A: I bought an ipad in January 2013 (10 mths ago) in the USA. It started giving problems a few weeks ago by restarting for itself every 2 mins. I took it at the apple dealer and repair center in South Africa where I currently stay, they tried fixing it but said that it needs to be replaced but they can't replace it since its under international warranty and they only deal with South African bought products. 
So I guess the warranty is not international

A: Apples warranties are international except for the iPhone where the warranty is only valid in the country the phones was bought in.

A: Apple Warranty is international and you can use your warranty on every country that apple has branch.
but other than warranty you can buy AppleCare Protection.
Apple has “global repair coverage” If you carry your Apple computer or iPod when you travel and happen to need repair service, AppleCare Protection Plan offers global repair coverage.
but for this you need to purchase AppleCare Protection , and if you want go to other country to buy your product cheaper AppleCare Protection not a good Idea. 

A: Yes it's international.
My friend bought a MacBook in the US and had a warranty case in Switzerland. The warranty case got solved without any problems.

A: AppleCare warranty is international, sort of no questions asked (unless you take in a soaking iPod).
Apple's limited 1 year warranty is sort of international. As in, your local Apple Service Provider may provide you with warranty or may choose to be very strict on the wording and not cover anything they don’t have to cover to the letter of the law and agreement.

A: Yes, Apple's computer warranties are international. Worst case, you have to ship your product back to the purchasing country if Apple asks for that, but the wording and common practice is U.S. purchases generally get covered everywhere Apple has service globally.
See Apple's Warranty Page for more details. The warranty is established in the country of purchase and if warranty service is not available in the country where the device is when service is requested, you may be on the hook for import/export duties as well as paying for the shipping.
No, iPhone and some parts of AppleCare plus are not necessarily international.

*

*https://www.apple.com/legal/warranty/
Pay attention to parts like:

IMPORTANT RESTRICTION FOR iPHONE, iPAD AND APPLE TV SERVICE.
Apple may restrict warranty service for iPhone, iPad and Apple TV to the country where Apple or its Authorized Distributors originally sold the device.

That doesn’t mean you won’t get service, but you could be denied or could have to get the device back to the country of purchase on your dime to get service.
Also, no in terms of consumer law varying widely between Europe, Asia, US and other countries:

*

*How does Apple's two year warranty in Europe work?
To recap:

*

*Warranty is what Apple offers and you may have responsibilities or costs to get service

*Consumer law covers things outside the warranty, so you need to balance both when choosing where to buy

*Look for words like shall and may and must - these contracts are legal and  /or prescriptive so details and words matter. Read all the document, several times before spending money if you don’t know the return policy or have limited time to return goods after purchasing them.


A: Read my answer here: https://apple.stackexchange.com/a/13285/34885 in the comments (look for my name: madivad). I can vouch that:
iPhones warranties are NOT international.

IMPORTANT RESTRICTION FOR iPHONE AND iPAD SERVICE.
  Apple may restrict warranty service for iPhone and iPad to the country where Apple or its Authorized Distributors originally sold the device.

from https://www.apple.com/legal/warranty/products/ipad-english-a.html
UPDATE: I made this post in 2013, I have again checked the link above in 2017, and the situation is still the same. 

