Q: Phone Numbers to be ignored Apparently someone has given my number has his telephone number to a whole bunch of offices, and I am getting a lot of calls on my phone asking for him!
Is there a setting on the iPhone 3GS - OS 4.0.2 to set a phone number to not ring, and not vibrate?

A: You can always make a silent ring tone as your default ring tone.  Be sure to assign ring tones to your contacts that you want to hear from.

A: Without jailbreaking, your only option is the network operator's (AT&T, Verizon, etc) blacklist option. There may be a monthly fee, $5/mo on AT&T for example, but will allow you block receiving calls from any number you like. iBlacklist will work if your phone is jailbroken, but it costs $11.99 - a little high in my opinion.

A: I was wrong! My other answer was incorrect and has been deleted. There's an app in the App Store called "Blacklist" that looks to do exactly what you want. I missed it before because I'm not in the US and it isn't available in my country, but your profile says you're in Philly, so you should be golden. $1.99.
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/blacklist/id310726855?mt=8

A: I was anticipating a problem like this a while back so I turned to Google voice to help. This won't help you now, or even after the fact, but for future reference, you get spam control from the dashboard and some other neat features. I found that I give my Google voice number out more freely because I trust the tools that allow me to block as needed.
Here's a useful link that talks about blocking with Google Voice. Scroll down to the "Spam from Individual Callers" section.

A: Create a silent ringtone with GarageBand. (This assumes you're on a Mac. I'm not sure how to get ringtones into iTunes on a Windows machine.)
Send it to iTunes so you you can sync it over to your iPhone.
Create a new contact called "IGNORE" or something that will let you know it's one of those unwanted callers. Assign the silent ringtone to that contact. (this allows you to keep your default ringtone audible)
As other numbers call that you don't want to be bothered by, you can just add them to that existing contact.
You hear the ringtones from people you want, and you don't from the annoying callers.
Problem solved. :)
