Q: How common are stuck or dead pixels on the MacBook Pro? I purchased a new Macbook Pro (15.4" with 500GB HDD), and discovered it had a stuck pixel in the centre of the screen. This pixel was always lit green, and any attempts to resolve it myself didn't work. I took it back to the retailer, who happily exchanged it for another one (which had to be ordered). I picked up the replacement yesterday, and to my horror, its screen had the same problem, although this time the pixel was stuck on red, and was in the bottom left hand corner of the screen. Another replacement has been ordered, and I'm now a little concerned that this may have the same problem.
This obviously has me pondering the quality of the latest range of Macbook Pro laptops, and I'm wondering how many of you may have had the same problems with your ones. Please share if you've had a similar issue.

A: I've had a number of Mac laptops, starting with a PowerBook 100 way back in the dark ages. I've been fortunate, I guess, that I've never had a stuck pixel.
You're fortunate that your retailer is working with you, as Apple considers a single stuck pixel to be within acceptable limits. That is, they don't promise zero stuck or dead pixels, so generally you'd just be out of luck. [Worth noting: ISO 13406-2, the standard for flat panel displays (more analysis here)].
If you find this happening again, though, you might try one or more of the (non-Windows) suggestions at How to Fix a Stuck Pixel on an LCD Monitor.

A: My experience in Mac tech support over the course of a few years has shown this be be fairly uncommon.  I only ever saw maybe two or three cases.  It may be an issue with the very specific range you're getting now, and which Apple will probably fix pretty soon.
Until then, keep sending them in- you've got Applecare for a year, so use it.  :)

A: My Macbook Pro had a malfunctioning backlight so they replaced the top assembly. The screen in the replacement had a couple stuck pixels in the middle of the screen, so they replaced it again. THAT screen had a stuck pixel in the bottom right, which after a couple weeks had changed to a horizontal line of them about an inch long. SOoo, back to Apple I went.
The screen I've got now has been perfect, with no bad pixels. I figure between the bench costs and replacement top assemblies they lost money on this machine, but once again Apple showed me they're a class act by not balking at fixing things. 

A: It doesn't surprise me that Apple would happily replace your computer, but for LCD screens (maybe LEDs too), it's not uncommon for companies to refuse to replace the screens if the dead pixels are a just a few.
