Q: Can Safari remember my tabs from last time? I want my previous browsing tabs to be restored when restarting Safari. I can do this in Firefox and Chrome. Is there a setting or an extension for this?
EDIT: So it turns out I was killing (word choice?) the Safari browser (and the Chrome browser for that matter). When I just Quit the browser my previous browsing is always maintained... So rather than get an extension or anything I believe the solution is just to Quit the browser?

A: I have been using SafariRestore from Safari Extensions. It works quite well. 

A: Just reopening after quitting Safari doesn't seem to restore the windows for me. (Or anymore?)
So to summarize:

*

*History — Reopen All Windows from Last Session or History — Reopen Last Closed Window

*SafariRestore, Sessions or SaveTabs

*Glims or Saft

*Bookmarks — Add Bookmark for These ␣ Tabs...

*In Lion there's Safari — Quit and Keep Windows (⌥⌘Q)


A: May I suggest, the free extension, Sessions. It restores last session and even saves sessions for later retrieval. It's stable with useful features like search, export, remove duplicates, micro-management, KB shortcuts & startup behavior settings.

A: After starting Safari, you can go to History -> Reopen All Windows from Last Session to have Safari reopen the windows and tabs that were open when you last used it. 
There's some additional info in this question: Is it possible to restart an application using AppleScript?, including a script (Chealion's answer) that can be modified to start Safari and call that menu automatically. 

A: There are lots of Safari Extensions here... Some of them are Session Managers which will sure do what you want ;-)

A: Not automatically, but you can click "Bookmarks \ Add Bookmark for These 3 Tab" which will create a folder containing bookmarks for all the currently open tabs.

A: As mentioned in the edited question, the solution seems to be to just Quit (command+Q) the browser rather than killing/restarting etc.

A: Glims will remember the history of your previous session, like Firefox and Chrome do. None of the other suggestions here will do that. They'll only show the last page you looked at in those tabs.
