Q: Can I get windows 7 like window resizing on Mac OS X? Windows 7 has a nice new feature for moving around windows. 
The one that I am particularly interested in is: 
Windows Key + Left/Right : Move the window to the left or right of the screen, or over to a second monitor.
But, Windows Key + Up: Maximize the current window and Windows Key + Down: Restore or minimize the current window. are also quite useful.
Is there anyway that I can get this functionality in OS? Preferably replacing the windows key with Command Key.

A: If you don't mind paying, there's SizeUp from Irradiated Software, worth paying for IMO. Gives you lots of customizability. 
If you just want the mouse windows resizing behaviour (dragging to the edges) from windows 7, there's Cinch from the same company.

A: There's a nice little app called Divvy, that gives you a lot of control on windows resizing, including keyboard shortcuts similar to ones Win7 has. It's $14, but worth it in my opinion.

A: Shift It
If you read this Article I think you get what you want.


A: Two excellent, free tools:


*

*Spectacle is ultra-simple and lets you setup shortcut keys to all the typical window placement actions (fill left half of screen, fill top half, full screen, center, etc).

*BetterTouchTool is very full featured and can do these keyboard shortcuts as well, but also lets you click and drag windows to "snap" to different regions of the screen. (And it has tons of other features, since it's original purpose was custom touchpad gestures).

A: You have a few good alternatives (there are more):
SizeUp
Optimal Layout
Switche

A: I used open source tool Slate (https://github.com/jigish/slate) for some years but moved recently all my configuration to non free "Keyboard Maestro". It's extremely flexible and settings can be edited using a tool instead of editing configuration files. It supports multiple screens and different setups better than anything else if've seen so far. Here's an example of pushing current window to the left half of main screen. 


A: I was looking for the same thing since window management on Mac is not ideal. I use MondoMouse (15$) for window sizing and control which I even like better than the Windows 7 model.
