Q: Is it possible to crossfade songs on an iPhone? Is it possible to crossfade songs on an iPhone that are played through the iPod app?
If there is no native way to do this, are there any apps that can do this?

A: I'm sorry, I don't think it is possible (yet). If you had an old iPod Nano/Classic then I might have suggested 'Rockbox' (give it a google). Send Apple a feature request about it, they never know, if enough people bombard them with requests then maybe it will become a native feature.
Sorry I can't be of more help.

A: I added a new app myself, because I wasn't happy with the other ones out there.  MediaMix didn't allow scrubbing, and MyDJ applied a flat "n seconds" crossfade to all songs.  I wanted something more customizable, so I wrote Muxic. 
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/muxic-intelligent-crossfading/id547091143?mt=8

A: It isn't the native iPod player, but Media Mix (link to free version) allows crossfading.

A: I use My DJ from the App Store, it works fine for me.

A: Stop&Go Music Player is perfectly suited for people looking for a very simple way of crossfading songs on the iPhone.
Full disclaimer : I made it !
It also has a specific "stop and go" playback mode I needed, and it's mainly designed to be very easy to use (and pretty to look at, I hope !).

A: I haven't been able to test it yet, but:
Making a playlist in iTunes
Highlighting all songs. 
Right click and choose Show info (In danish: Vis Info)
Last menu "Choice" (danish: Valg) 
Here the bottom entry point is "Albun without pause" No/Yes
I have choosen Yes and am now waiting to get home where I have my cable so I can sync with my iPhone 3GS too se if it works.
Michal

A: One app which does allow crossfading (although you have to do it manually) is called Tap DJ.

A: The new Jam Session app I just distributed allows to do exactly that and much more:
http://www.jamsession.in
It allows to select a number of tunes from the user's library and then play them without gaps of silence between them. The next version shall also allow to handle several playlist and some one in the future also tuen the BPMs of the selected tunes - one I know how to do it...
