Q: Can I use Apple Earphones with Mic on Mac Mini? I read on Apple website that Mac mini audio port supports the apple earphones with mic. Does it support the mic as well? Can I use the mic for Audio input on applications like Skype?
I tried plugging it in but the audio input did not work...
Update: Here's the apple website where its written that Support for Apple iPhone headset with microphone is there. Mac Mini Specs Page
Update: I think I've got what the problem is. The specs page I referred to above is about the latest Mac Mini. What I have is the Mac Mini mid 2007 model. I checked its specs and there is nothing about support of Apple earphones with mic. I think this is the reason its not working.
Regards

A: You cannot directly plug your headphones into the Audio Input jack and have it work, because, the microphone/button signal rides on the third ring, and the audio input jack only connects the first two. You have to have specially designed hardware to connect to that third ring. This is currently achieved via the Headphone/Audio Output ports of devices.
Only the iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad, 2010 MacBook Pros, and the modern body (smaller height) Mac Minis are the only pieces of hardware I am aware that do. Anything older will not support the microphone/button/volume buttons at all.

A: Have you tried plugging it into the headphone jack?
Sounds screwy, I know, but I think that's the answer.

A: If the website or documentation explicitly states that it supports 'Apple Earphones with Mic' or something to that effect while still mentioning the mic, then yes, you should be able to use then as you would on an iPhone, in Skype or whatever. HOWEVER if they don't work in the input port then they will not work at all I didn't think that any other devices except the MBP and the iOS devices worked with them. Sorry.

A: I had the same issue and had to use an adapater. I've found this one.
(just for info, I'm not affiliated in any way with the site).
I suppose you can find other brand and stores providing the same type of adapters.
Edit: It seems not to be possible with "normal" headset mic but they state clearly that the Apple headset is compatible. How would it be amplified?
Strange for our mic, I'll have to check at the office how we are using this then. I'm confused now :-/ I know we also have amplified mic and we probably went this way then... Sorry for the wrong info.
