Q: Utility for Visualizing Network Traffic via SNMP I'm looking for a piece of software akin to Cacti, one that is preferably much easier to set up, and has a high-quality frontend to it.
I had a headless Linux desktop that I used to poll my Time Machine and graph network statistics off of, but that computer is currently undergoing repairs, so I'm left with the remaining computers I have in the house, which are all Mac.
I have no specific requirements that I consider as a sticking point. My baseline of features would be something with the granularity that Cacti/RRDTool provide. Graphs with scalable units of time/history (configurable is a plus!), quick/easy to get started with little installation is preferable, something that perhaps just runs as a daemon/program and doesn't require a web server and detailed tailored configuration (read: discovery) would be just fine, and possibly even preferred.

A: Unfortunately I'm not aware of any serious competition to Cacti, but have you considered using a Cacti virtual appliance? There are several pre-configured VMs available with everything pre-installed and ready to go.
Cacti 0.8.7g
rPath Cacti Appliance
You might also want to take a look here:
A Half-Dozen or So Essential Open Source Network Administraton Tools
and in particular at:
Graph Network Performance with NRG - Part 1
He also has a page on how to install Cacti on OS X.
Now I can't say that this meets your desire for something as simple as a typical OS X application install but it certainly meets the free requirement.
I can't say I've played with any of these tools on OS X bar Mac Ports which I consider an essential on any OS X system.
Another really simplistic app (OS X widget actually) is iEyeNet, it definitely meets the free and simple criteria but isn't anywhere as configurable as Cacti. I tried it with my Airport Extreme and it "just worked".
Another option is documented here, it uses a combination of MRTG/Lingon/Geektool to generate and display the network graphs. Reasonably easy to setup...

A: I know this is an old topic and also I'm aware of how sensitive recommending one's own application can be (especially in case of a commercial application), however I think this does answer the OP's question exactly. If this is not allowed (I tried looking for a policy in the FAQ), please let me know and I will take this down. 
I've been looking for such application for OSX myself. I couldn't really find one (except for the afore mentioned iEyeNet, which didn't meet my requirements) and so I've decided to write one myself, which gave me the opportunity to learn a bit of Objective-C. 
I call it iNetGrapher. I think it will meet your requirements although it's not free. It's very simple to install (essentially get it on Mac App Store), doesn't require a web server or any other service / daemon / dependent software, it does autodiscovery of all interfaces on a supported network device / server and it lets you simultaneously graph traffic from multiple interfaces and multiple devices. It supports SNMPv1 and SNMPv2c, and in the latter case, both 32-bit and 64-bit counters. 
There is also a free, good alternative, although it is command line only - it might fit your needs though. It's called ttg - you'll need to open this page and scroll down till you find it, or download the source from here: ttg.c. This one has been written by a good friend of mine. 
I hope this is useful. I've been genuinely trying to help here and not promote my app. 

A: I'm using SNMP software from Oidview. I am not sure if they have it for your linux machine but at least you can test it and see if thats what you want.
