Q: What iPhone apps can't you live without? What are your "must-have" iPhone or iPod touch apps—the ones you can't live without? (Figuratively speaking, I hope.) Please omit apps that come pre-installed.
Rules


*

*One app per answer.

*Use this format for the first two lines of your answer:
## [app name](link to website)
[App Store](link to appstore)   

*Include short description.

*Check for duplicates before adding new answers. 

*If you find a duplicate, vote it down and encourage its poster to upvote the original entry instead (and remove the dupe).


Please exclude iPad-only apps from here; there's Great iPad Apps for those. 
Disclaimer: I know this type of question is controversial. However, great many people do find that properly implemented and curated CW polls can be useful. (If you are one of those who do not, could you simply consider ignoring this?)

A: Articles
App Store
Best way to read Wikipedia.

A: OmniFocus
App Store 
Task management application that uses the Getting Things Done (GTD) organizational method. Also available for Mac and iPad.

A: Simplenote
Note-taking in a better interface than the default Notes application (no Marker Felt) and notes are synched to a server for easy backups and viewing elsewhere.

A: Spotify
App Store
For listening to music off the internet (directly on wifi/3G or via offline playlists).
NB: Spotify is only available in certain countries, and Spotify Premium (€9.99 or £9.99 per month) is needed to use the iPhone app.
Now with iOS 4 + iPhone 4 (unlike with my unjailbroken iPhone 3G earlier) the experience is really good, as you get background play and ability to use normal iPod playback controls (e.g. the headphone remote). In other words, it's similar to using the built-in iPod app, except that you have approximately 10 million tracks available at your fingertips.

A: IMDb
App Store
iPhone app for the largest movie database website IMDb

A: instagr.am
App Store (free)
It’s a fast, beautiful and fun way to share your life with friends through a series of pictures. Snap a photo with your iPhone, choose a filter to transform the look and feel, send to Facebook, Twitter or Flickr – it’s all as easy as pie. It’s photo sharing, reinvented.
Simple idea, brillantly executed.

A: Dictionary.com
App Store
Comprehensive, yet free, dictionary & thesaurus. Key features:


*

*All word definitions come with the app—no internet connection needed 

*Decent UI with autocomplete (no need to type in the whole word)

*Audio pronunciations (internet connection required for this)


A: Adobe Photoshop Express
App Store
Great little mobile photo editor!

A: Cut the Rope
App Store ($0.99)
The best game in the app store

A: Pandora Radio
App Store (free)
Everyone probably knows about Pandora Radio by now.  Put in a favorite artist and it helps you locate similar artists.  It's helped me find many new bands.

A: Dropbox
App Store
Conveniently access files in your Dropbox on the go.

A: Trainyard
App Store ($0.99 USD)
A great puzzle game with tons of levels. Kept me playing for days, and I've still been unable to beat a couple levels after a couple months of having the app.  There is also a free version. Intuitive, fun, and brain exercising.

A: Tweetbot By Tapbots
App Store (Price: $2.99)
Description
Tweetbot is a full-featured iPhone (and iPod touch) Twitter client with a lot of personality. Whether it’s the meticulously-crafted interface, sounds & animation, or features like multiple timelines & smart gestures, there’s a lot to love about Tweetbot.


A: Remember The Milk
App Store 
The best way to manage your tasks.

A: Pulse
App Store
Reeder is the best RSS reader for Google Reader. But Pulse is much nicer to randomly read various feeds.

A: Pocket
App Store 
Pocket lets you save webpages to read later, even without an internet connection. Ideal for those who have iPod touch but don't have access to Wifi. Also while travelling in subway, where 3g always goes haywire.

A: Doodle Jump
App Store
Doodle Jump™ is THE MOST ADDICTIVE GAME on the App Store. Enough said :)

A: Soulver
App Store ($2.99) 
Soulver is by far the most useful calculator app in the App Store. It's a much easier and more powerful way to work with numbers over a normal calculator. Embed text with your calculations to make it easier to see the problem you are solving. You can easily go back and make a change earlier in the calculation and have everything updated, similar to a spreadsheet. You can use several lines and reference previous lines in your calculations allowing yourself to split up long equations or even reuse parts to see different results. These can all be saved on separate sheets so it's easy to go back and reference them later. You'll never go back to a normal calculator again.
(Sorry, will only let me post one hyper link)

A:  Flipboard
App Store 
the best newsreader and social hub

A: Twitter
App Store
The official Twitter client. Previously known as Tweetie 2.

A: Reeder
App Store
Google Reader client.

A: Instapaper
App Store
A simple tool to save web pages for reading later.

A: Remote
App Store
Wifi remote control for iTunes music library (or Apple TV). This is made by Apple but doesn't come pre-installed.
(Some have pointed out that Remote's development has stagnated, but personally I don't mind that much, as the app works as great as ever, and all major features are already there.)

A: Echofon
App Store (free)
App Store ($4.99)
A great twitter client with synchronization between the desktop version for Mac and the Firefox extension

A: Viber
App Store 
Viber is a MUST-HAVE app. Lets you make and get free calls over 3G or Wifi even the app is not running. Notifies you when there is a call for you. Also gets your contact list and notifies when a friend installs VIBER. Sound quality is amazing even on 3G. I am talking to my best buddy living in Switzerland freely via Wifi from Turkey. And VIBER is a FREE app.

A: Mobile Mouse
App Store (1.99$)
Mobile Mouse instantly transforms your iPhone or iPod touch into an in air, wireless remote for your computer! Sit back and use this remote to surf the web, browse your photo library or control your music player from the comfort of your couch. 
I use an old mac-mini as a Media Center and the combi Remote+Mobile Mouse apps is gold!

A: Calvetica
App Store ($2.99)
A beautiful, minimal calendar app without peer.
Just go look. I defy you to not become more efficient with your calendar use.

A: AppShopper
App store (free)
You can keep a list of apps you want, and it will let you know when they drop in price.

A: Instacast
App Store ($1.99)
It's the best Podcast-App in the AppStore, and handles Podcast much better than iTunes.


*

*Download all Podcasts; automatically and in the background

*Stream Podcast over Edge, 3G or WiFi

*Continue where you left off

*Support for iCloud


A: Facebook
App Store
If you're into Facebook, their official iPhone app is pretty good for staying connected with people.

A: ComicBookLover
App Store (free)
Read .cbr and .cbz format comic books. All sorts of transfer options, including iTunes sync. Good, intuitive page flipping. Great in combination with the desktop version, which allows you to add all sorts of metadata to maintain your collection.
Works best on the iPhone's 4 retina display - no need to zoom!

A: MyWi
(Not avaiable in app store; jailbreak required.)
Turns your iPhone into a wifi hotspot. Just great!

A: Shazam
App Store
Records a few seconds of what you're currently listening to and then shows you information about this song. Shazam is quite old by now, but still an amazing piece of software that's always useful from time to time.

A: Sleep Cycle alarm clock
App Store
An alarm clock that analyzes your sleep patterns (using iPhone accelerometer) and wakes you in the lightest sleep phase.

A: 1Password
If you use 1Password on your Mac, the iOS app is quite handy.  It can be linked to a Dropbox account therefore keeping data synchronized between your desktop and iOS device.  There are regular and pro versions available for both iPhone and iPad.

A: Things
App Store
Task management tool. The todo items can be synced (over wifi) with OS X and iPad versions.

A: PlainText
App Store

Dropbox text editing.
For editing text on iPad & iPhone. PlainText is a simple text editor with a paper-like user interface. Unlike the default Notes app, PlainText allows you to create and organize your documents in folders and sync everything with Dropbox.com. Requires iOS 3.0+

After trying different note-taking apps like SimpleNote and Evernote, I discovered this beauty a few days ago and it immediately replaced the built-in Notes app for me, both on my iPhone and my iPad. It fit my needs perfectly, and is really simple & beautifully designed. YMMV, but it's free to try.
P.S. Elements is a feature-packed alternative with Markdown support and built-in email, but I'm not sure I need those features and it's $4.99.

A: SoundHound
App Store
SoudHound seems a lot faster than Shazam. Will start to try to match a song even before the full capture. It also identified songs that Shazam didn't. And SoundHound's free version allows unlimited matches, while Shazam allows 5 per month.

A: Angry Birds
App Store
The best game in the app store 

A: WhatsApp
App Store
WhatsApp Messenger is a smartphone messaging app which allows you to exchange messages with your friends and contacts without having to pay for SMS. WhatsApp Messenger is cross platform and available for iPhone, BlackBerry, Android and Nokia (beta) and yes, those phones can all message each other! To send and receive messages, WhatsApp utilizes your existing smartphone internet data plan: 3G/EDGE (or Wi-Fi when available)
In addition to messaging, iPhone, Android and BlackBerry WhatsApp Messenger users can send each other unlimited images, video and audio media messages.

A: Cydia
Cydia (jailbreak required)
Cydia is a software application for iOS that is a graphical front end to APT and the dpkg package management system. It allows a user to browse and download applications for a jailbroken iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad.


A: Server Remote
App Store ($3.99)  
Simple app to monitor servers, including uptime, running commands, load levels, and memory. Really worth it.

A: Safety Light
When it comes to flashlight apps, you get what you pay for. I've tried a number of these, and the interface and technical capabilities are just right. Much, much better than the free ones. Also, it somehow manages to get the screen super-bright, lighting up an entire room without draining the battery like the new LED-using apps that have flooded the App Store. No battery warning to is this one.

A: Byline
App Store ($4.99 / 3.99 €)
App Store (Byline Free) (free; with ads)
Google Reader on the go. Byline will automatically bring you new content, putting thousands of RSS and Atom feeds at your fingertips. Even when you have no internet connection, Byline gives you instant access to complete web pages. It automatically analyses your feeds so that it can cache the ones with truncated content. This means all your news is there in full when you’re offline, and blazing fast to load when you’re online to boot.

A: MoneyBook
App Store ($2.99)
Great app to track and manage finances.

A: Prizmo for iPhone
App Store ($9.99)
Though it is expensive (compared to other apps that is), this is OCR done right. Works great to capture some texts, quicker than using a scanner and can also be used to import business cards.

A: StreamToMe
App Store ($2.99)
Streams almost any video or music from your Mac or PC to the iPhone and iPad. The Mac/PC is converting the source file on the fly. Playback generally starts after 5 seconds.

A: Profanity
App Store ($0.99 / £0.59)
The best (and only) profanity generator in the App store. Always useful in the pub. Otherwise completely pointless but great fun.

A: Wikipanion
App Store (free)
Probably the best Wikipedia app in the AppStore. Easy navigation, nice article formatting, very fast.

A: GoodReader for iPhone
App Store ($2.99)
Super-robust PDF reader with advanced reading, annotating, markup and highlighting capabilities, excellent file manager, TXT file reader and editor, audio/video player, Safari-like viewer for MS Office and iWorks files.
This is a great app for any documents organizer and good PDF reader. It also can unzip the zip files, as it's not natively handled by iOS. I use it everyday. It used to sell $0.99, but now they increased price.

A: Snappy
Enable using the camera from anywhere, even while screen locked. Just configure how to activate it (mine is double tap the lock button) and take photos really, really fast. Also configure the volume button to act as a shutter. It has few more great features such as being able to take one photo after the other really quickly, proper geolocation and camera meta data.
This apps is for jailbroken phones only.

A: PCalc
App Store ($9.99)
My favourite calculator on iOS. The best feature is the optional RPN mode, but it's chockers with other goodies, a very capable tool. I've found it indispensable at university—unfortunately I still have to borrow a graphics calculator for officially invigilated exams, but when there's an in-class test sprung upon me, someone asks me to help them, or even in casual conversation when a question beyond my horrifically meagre arithmetical abilities arises, PCalc is great. It doesn't handle actual graphing, & it still handles statistics in the same horrifically bad way every physical calculator since the old HPs has, but the rest is fine: different notations, bases, button layouts, unit conversions, etc., & the (distressingly un-)usual logarithmic, hyperbolic, trigonometric et al. functions. A dedicated unit from TI, HP or Casio will completely outstrip PCalc but it makes the anaemic built-in calculator look like a child's toy.

A: Anki
Anki is software to help make it easier to remember things. It uses spaced repetition technology to make sure you only see the items you are having trouble remembering and the things you do remember you see less often. I can't imagine studying without it anymore. In particular it's been a huge help studying languages and I highly recommend it. The iPhone app is a companion to the desktop software and syncs through their servers. The desktop application is free, but if you find it useful the iPhone app is invaluable to studying on the go. 

A: WiFi2HiFi
App Store (USD $3.99)
Stream Grooveshark, Spotify, Pandora or any other audio player from the computer to the iPhone.  

A: Pastebot
App Store ($3.99/€2.99)
Together with its companion Mac application, let's you copy/paste from Mac to iPhone. Really handy. It also keeps clipboard data in your iPhone (example: you can copy an image from a website and keep it in Pastebot)

A: TextExpander
App Store ($4.99)
Create shorthand strings which expand into more complex statements. For instance, you can create a snippet such that typing ssig expands to

Regards,
John Doe
123 Sesame St.
Anywhere, USA 12345
foo@bar.com

Snippets can include variable values, and quite a few other niceties. Many popular apps also support TextExpander, a list of which appears here. This is really useful for reducing the amount of typing repetitive or common phrases.

A: Prompt
App Store ($7.99)
Allows you to SSH from any iOS device. I find it indispensable for doing C++ homework.

A: Major League Baseball (MLB.com)
Better than reading the sports page.

A: Colorendar
($0.99)
Simple calendar app that let's you create a "color diary." Also shows you phases of the moon.

A: OPlayer
App Store (€2,39)
App Store, Lite version (Free)
Plays almost every kind of video format, without having to transcode first. Transfer via iTunes sync or stream right from a web server. There's also an iPad version.

A: Prowl
App Store ($2.99)
The app itself is ultimately a "dumb client" for sending push notifications to your phone. Prowl is a service used to push arbitrary text to you. There are numerous services in the wild for leveraging it to send you NAGIOS and other alerts from monitoring software, Prey Fetcher exists to push posts, @'s, DMs, and list updates to you, and anything else you're capable of dreaming up.

A: Flashcards Deluxe
App Store (USD 3.99)
Not perfect, but possibly the best SRS app on the (U.S.) App Store.

A: Epic Win
App Store ($2.99)
This is a great app for task management. It's a lot more fun than Things, although not as feature-full it combines a To Do list app with an RPG. Beautifully designed and useful.

A: iGmail
App Store (free)
Just a browser wrapper to use gmail easily and quickly. I find this much better than regular Maill.app - too bad it doesn't have an offline version thus being slow and not as much reliable.

A: Qik
First and best real time video streaming on iPhone. 'nof said.

A: Longitude
(Available in Cydia; jailbroken only)
Automatically feed your location into Google Latitude.

A: Kirikae
Brings multi-tasking to iOS 3 way before iOS 4 was born. It actually works even better than iOS 4, from my opinion, because it doesn't leave every app open (which can bring batter down quickly) but it does let you configure if you want to do that per app basis. In other words, you can configure which app you want to automatically leave in background.

A: Ninjawords
App Store ($1.99)
A dictionary, to put it simply. It uses definitions from Wiktionary, which I find both more concise & more helpful than those of Dictionary.com, for instance. More importantly though, it's got a fast, lean & intuitive interface. No superfluous features, but I never find myself missing any functionality. It's a joy to use, unlike any other dictionary app I've tried.

A: Textie
App Store (free, $1.99 to remove ads)
Textie provides free messaging between iOS devices a la SMS. If Textie isn't installed on the recipient device, the service will route the message to SMS on many US mobiles, & to email in every other case. Replies are delivered to Textie on the original sending device with push notifications. The icing on the cake is the slick, minimal interface.
WhatsApp is already on this list, but not only does it not integrate with SMS or email, but I've always found it to have extremely variable latency, from a couple of seconds to two days. Textie's latency has never exceeded twenty seconds for me.

A: ShopShop
App Store (free)
I feel like a bit of a dork for posting this but I find it quite useful and simple.  It's just a list app.  It keeps a repository of all entries you make so you can quickly add them back the next time you need it.  Make a grocery list and check them off.  The next time you won't have to type out items you've already used, just add them to a new list from the remembered items.

A: MobileRSS Pro ~ Google RSS News Reader
Pretty self-explanatory.  An RSS reader for Google Reader.  Simple and well-designed.

A: Boxcar
App Store (Free)
Aggregates notifications from various services including Twitter and Facebook; the killer features of this, for me, are its integration with Buzz, which has no built-in iOS notifications, and Growl, allowing me to send notifications from scripts running on my desktop and get them on my iPod Touch.

A: Papers
App Store ($14.99)
Tool for managing academic journal articles. Syncs with the Mac App.

A: Site to Phone
Bookmarklet that lets you send the current page in your browser to your mobile device of choice.

A: Age Of Zombies
App Store (USD $2.99)
Pure awesome fun.

A: Posterous
App Store (free)
Post to your posterous.com microblog, especially useful for posting pictures and location on-the-go. Similar to twitter feeds, but a bit nicer to view photo galleries for your viewers. It can be set up to auto-publish to twitter, facebook, tumblr, etc.

A: Notebooks
App Store ($5.99)
Another note taking system. Can also display HTML and RTF files, and you can sort notes into a hierarchy of notebooks.

A: TechNews
App Store
This is errr... my app, but I couldn't find any rules on this one.
Anyway, it is a really cool news app about Apple and other related stuff.

A: Grocery IQ
App Store
A great grocery list management app. Can be shared across users - so for example, I can add items at home on my iPad and the list is synchronized to my wife's iPhone while she shops.

A: Twitterific for Twitter
App Store
A great Twitter client for iPhone and iPad. Free/ad version and paid versions available.

A: Zite
App Store (free)
Zite is a free personalized magazine for your iPhone that automatically learns what you like and gets smarter every time you use it.

A: Talkatone
App Store (free)
Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account.

A: Opera Mini
App Store (free)
Opera Mini offers the fastest, most cost-efficient web-browsing experience for your iOS device today.
Of course, if data limits/costs are of no concern, just use Safari for the most beautiful browsing experience on iOS — but Opera Mini is perfect for travelling abroad, to keep data roaming costs to a minimum, or when you’re stuck with a slow connection.

A: LogMeIn Ignition
App Store ($29.99)
Remote control in which you can see the screen with free subscriptions and desktop versions. iPhone app costs quite a bit, but it's the best remote control for iPhone I've seem, and probably the first too. Works over web or within same intranet wifi.

A: TomTom
Car navigation with full offline maps for probably every country out there. TomTom is well known for their own car navigation GPS's, but this version for iphone can become very handy from times to times where you don't have one proper device.

A: Zapd
Great app to publish entire websites from your iPhone in a few clicks.
