Q: How can I stop OS X from switching Spaces when the mouse cursor is at the edge of the screen? Mac OS X Spaces change when I hold the mouse at the edge of the screen. Is there an application or 'defaults' command to disable this?
Warp looks like it might help, but hasn't changed the behavior for me, even though I tried turning it off, or setting a modifier key.

A: I found a solution. The following sets the delay to 1 minute.
defaults write com.apple.dock workspaces-edge-delay -float 60 && killall Dock
source: Leopard: Lower the window drag delay between spaces

A: OS X - Snow Leopard seems to have two states when it comes to the switching behavior. Dragging a window or not dragging a window. If you are not dragging a window, it ignores your mouse hovering at a side. This makes sense, or the dock and hot corners would be very hard to use. When you are dragging a window, it auto-switches workspaces if you hang around at a side. This also makes sense.
Sometimes though, it seems to get confused about if you're dragging a window or not. When this happens, even if you aren't dragging a window, it still flips workspaces if you hover the mouse on a side, thereby making the dock and hot corners very hard to use.
In order to reset this state, I figured out that you can pick up a window, drag it around a bit, then let go. This seems to reset its "you're currently dragging a window" state with respect to workspace switching.

A: It only switches when you're actively dragging something and linger on the edge of the screen for several seconds. Simply hovering shouldn't change anything. 

A: I am using Warp successfully to do that.  I've checked "Enable Warp" and "Click screen edge to Warp".  When I touch an edge, I get a small window surrounding the cursor that either shows a tiny view of the adjacent space and its windows, or says "No windows" -- is that what you're seeing?  At that point, clicking will change spaces, or you can back away from the edge to remain in the same space.
Edit:  Oops - I have to backtrack. My answer applies to just the mouse cursor, not to dragging a window.  I see the same behavior you describe if I drag a window to the edge and hover there holding it: Spaces will switch repeatedly until I back the cursor off of the edge.
