Q: Which iPod has the best sound quality? I'd like to know if an iPod classic is a better investment than an iPod touch? I am really more into music than apps and games. If you have some other suggestions about great-sounding mp3 players I'd like to hear it.

A: The 5th generation and earlier have the best sound because they use the Wolfson chips. (see this article for more info)

A: I got an iPod Classic for Christmas to replace my aging iPod Mini (1st generation). The sound difference between the two is very obvious. I have a couple different sets of in-ear and over the ear headphones, all at least $100, that I used with the Mini, and with the Classic I'm hearing new stuff with every song. 
I attribute this to faster CPUs and better algorithms but I haven't checked to see how different the CPUs are. 

A: All current iPods support the same:

Frequency response: 20Hz to 20,000Hz
  Audio formats supported: AAC (8 to 320
  Kbps), Protected AAC (from iTunes
  Store), HE-AAC, MP3 (8 to 320 Kbps),
  MP3 VBR, Audible (formats 2, 3, 4,
  Audible Enhanced Audio, AAX, and
  AAX+), Apple Lossless, AIFF, and WAV

This is from the Apple iPod tech specs page.
So, since they all support the same bitrates and formats, the quality does not change between models.
Get whichever you want. The real sound quality difference will come from your speakers or headphones.
Note: If you want the best sound, use the Apple Lossless format.

A: Whoever will tell you the devices have the same sound output capabilities is certainly not an audiophile or is simply someone who needs an ears'check. I own an iPod Touch 2G, an iPod Nano 7th Gen, iPod Classic 5th Gen, iPhone 4S, iPhone 6s, iPad Air 2. The best, crisper, crystal clear sound, after testing all devices with the same FLAC album, same headphones and no equalizers enabled, the best audio quality comes out from the iPod Classic.
Period.

A: If you are not considering the speaker of the iPod Touch itself, the music is happening on a different device.  The only considerations then are whether the player can handle the music you throw at it, considering sample rate, bit rate, and compression.  Cheaper MP3 players, for example, could only handle 128 kbit/s, which wouldn't technically sound as good as 192 kbit/s.  CD quality sound is 44.1 kHz and ~1,400 kbit/s.  The MP3 is compressed, so the bit rate is obviously less.
The other consideration is whether your player's flash can be upgraded.  The downside to this is having it run very slowly.
Another consideration is how you will use it, whether it will be jogging or setting in a cradle to a bigger sound system.
