Q: Is the Verizon iPhone 4 susceptible to the 'grip of death'? Of course, it's possible to get any phone to lose a bit of signal if you cover the antenna with your hands, but I'm wondering if the Verizon iPhone 4 also suffers from the attenuation issues that the AT&T iPhone 4 famously suffered from last summer:


A: ArsTechnica notes that there is no  noticeable signal loss when gripping it with the 'death grip'. Though due to the way smart phone antennas are designed, it still may be possible

A: As an add-on to the Ars report: photos of the adjustment of button locations also show differing locations of the breaks in the metal band around the device, so it's quite possible there was a real hardware change.  

Other pictures show different breaks near the bottom of the phone, too.

A: The flaw is in the iPhone 4's antenna design, not the network or carrier.  So, I would say yes.  The software "fix" they released is supposed to make the bars depict signal quality more accurately, so you may find that while on Verizon, "the death grip" doesn't affect signal quality at all or as much.. but that doesn't negate that the antenna design itself is flawed physically, and that's why "the death grip" has any affect on signal quality.

A: Slashgear confirms that the Verizon iPhone 4 does not suffer from the death grip:

We put our hand in the standard “death
  grip” location, making sure that we
  covered up all of the right spots, and
  held onto the device for up to a
  minute. When we started the test, the
  device was at four bars. It should be
  noted that full service is represented
  on the iPhone 4 with 5 bars. So, the
  test started with only four bars being
  shown. As we held the device, and we
  timed it at a minute, we watched as
  only one bar disappeared.
We then put our fingers over certain
  points on the device. Making sure to
  cover up the “new” top portion of the
  antenna, and we still couldn’t
  reproduce the “death grip” symptoms
  that plagued the initial launch of the
  iPhone 4. You can check out the images
  from our test below, but it looks like
  Verizon’s confidence in the iPhone 4
  on their network seem to be pretty
  sound.

