Q: What can be done more with an old ipod touch(First generation) Hi I had an I pod touch (first generation) with version : 1.1.5(4B1) which I bought from EBAy
long time back in 2008
I had installed latest ITunes and browsing if 
I can find any applications that can be run on this 1st gen iPod.
But most of the apps are generally compatible with 3 and greater.
Are there really any  for 1st gen? If no, what else can be done apart from
playing music and videos..
I had seen http://support.apple.com/kb/HT2052 which
says can be updated to iOS3.1. Has anyone done ...any problems faced..
Any other suggestion you have apart from selling it :-)

A: Maybe not the best iOS device nowadays but it still makes a nifty remote!
I have an Ipod Touch (2nd gen though) that I use to control my mac-mini media center.
It's very intuitive to manage your playlist (iTunes DJ mode) with the Remote app.
And I use Mobile Mouse Pro to use my Ipod as a mouse. User experience  is not as sweet as Remote but still a great app which eliminates the need for keyboard. 

A: I also have a 1st generation iPod Touch.  I have consistently upgradedthe operating system every time an upgrade was available, so I am now running iOS 3.1.
No problems whatsoever, running all sorts of apps, many of which required iOS 3+.
Don't confuse the operating system version with the iPod/iPhone generation (gen 1, 2, 3 or 4).

A: You can Using your iPod as a storage drive:
From apple support:

  
*
  
*Connect iPod to your computer.
  
*Open iTunes if it doesn't automatically open.
  
*Select the iPod icon in the Source pane.
  
*Click the Summary tab.
  
*Select "Enable disk use" or "Manually manage music and videos."
  Either one will allow you to use iPod
  as a drive. If you select "Manually
  manage music and videos," iTunes won't
  automatically update iPod with the
  iTunes library. If you want iTunes to
  automatically update your iPod, select
  "Enable disk use" instead.
  
*The iPod disk icon appears on the desktop and in Finder windows, and in
  My Computer/Computer in Windows.
  Double-click the icon and drag files
  to or from iPod's window to copy them.
  
*Make sure to eject iPod before disconnecting it from your computer.
  Tip: The iPod display will say "Do Not
  Disconnect" when disk use is enabled
  (iPod shuffle's status light will
  continue to blink orange until after
  it is ejected). These are reminders
  for you to eject iPod first.
  


A: Yes, you can run apps on that. You've got to upgrade to 3.1.3. I think it costs $10.
Not all apps will run though, but most of them will run fine.

A: You could always jailbreak your device you can do loads of cool things like running android or loads of new settings its really good
