Q: How can I activate buttons with just the keyboard? Many user interface (UI) elements or dialog boxes have buttons. I would like to be able to activate a button with just the keyboard, without the mouse. How can I do this?

A: For many dialog boxes you can select the option you want by pressing ⌘+firstletter
where firstletter is the first letter of the option you want to select

A: In macOS Big Sur (version 11.3+), System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts
Select Use keyboard navigation to move focus between controls

@Eric Leschinski's answer gives an overview of keyboard shortcuts

A: ⌘+. also works for Cancel. And in some applications just pressing the initial letters works. Photoshop is one, but it's pretty common for other cross-platform applications too.
Typing ⌘+W+D is a quick way to do something like Close and don't save.

A: Enable Keyboard Control of the UI
System Prefs > Keyboard > Shortcuts

Then select "All Controls" radio button at the bottom, rather than just "Text boxes and lists only".

Keyboard Shortcuts


*

*⇥ (TAB) will move between buttons.

*esc (ESC) is cancel.

*space (SPACE) selects the active button (blue, outline).

*↩ (RETURN) is OK or the default button (blue, pulsing, filled).

*For some dialog boxes, ⌘+first_letter will select the button with a certain first letter in the text (as pointed out by @Griffo).


A: To elaborate on the answers above, many (most?) dialogue boxes will have the default option in blue.  Hitting ⇥ will cycle between options, with a blue outline around the other button, but the default will remain blue.  Hitting ↩ will always select the default, space will select whichever button is highlighted. 
In this example, pressing ↩ will 'Keep .txt' and pressing space will 'Use .bak.'


A: See full Keyboard Access at the bottom of the following screenshot:  

When a prompt window like the one you included appears, the selected button will be highlighted in blue.
Screenshot:  

Then you press the space to action that button.

A: Tab to move to the next dialog box.
Space to select
