Q: How to nuke everything from imac and start it at the beginning from scratch like i first bought it I have some problems that i cannot resolve on my iMac and now I would like to delete everything and start it from scratch like when i first bought it a few years ago.  Please show me the steps.
Thanks,
Jon

A: The easiest way is as follows:
You will need the original (or a newer) Mac OS X install disk for the computer. Do not use and older version than originally came with the Mac, and do not use the install disk from any other model of Mac.
Insert the disk and restart the computer pressing the Option key as it restarts. After about a minute when it loads, click the arrow under your installer DVD to boot from it.
When it starts, click continue on English. In the menu bar, select Utilities and select Disk Utility. Disk Utility may be under a different menu on some install disks.
Select your disk in the left column (select the disk, not the partition (select the one labeled something weird, not "Macintosh HD")) and follow the instructions to erase the disk. For best results choose the option to "securely erase" the disk, or to overwrite the data with 0's rather than just mark as free space. It will take longer but is more secure (if your data was valuable) and cleans the disk better. Then close Disk Utility and install the operating system on the newly erased disk.
Viola! Brand new Mac OS X. Enjoy the startup video ;)

A: There's a nice write-up on TUAW on how to do this:

Erase and Install
This will erase the contents of your
  drive, format it into HFS+ and install
  Leopard clean. EVERYTHING ON YOUR HARD
  DRIVE WILL BE ERASED. If you choose
  this option, it is crucial that you
  back-up all of your data safely before
  the installation. If you select this
  option, you can click on an "Options"
  button that will give you additional
  choices, for instance, removing
  language files you may never use --
  but if choices make you uncomfortable,
  just go for the standard installation.


A: To reinstall Leopard visit this Apple Support page or follow these steps:

  
*
  
*Insert the Mac OS X Install Disc and double-click the Install Mac OS X
  icon.
  
*Follow the onscreen instructions. In the pane where you select the
  destination disk, select your current
  Mac OS X disk (in most cases, it will
  be the only one available).
  
*Click Options. If you want to save your existing files, users, and
  network settings, select “Archive and
  Install,” and then select “Preserve
  Users and Network Settings.” If you
  want to erase everything on your
  computer and reinstall Mac OS X,
  select “Erase and Install.” You can’t
  recover erased data.
  
*Click Continue.
  
*Click Customize to select which parts of Mac OS X you’d like to
  install, or click Install to perform a
  basic installation (recommended).  
  


To reinstall Snow Leopard visit this Apple Support page or follow these steps:

Important: This procedure will completely erase your hard drive. If
  you have installed Microsoft Windows
  using Boot Camp, or have multiple
  partitions, this procedure will erase
  the partition you select.
Part One: Erasing the hard drive
  
  
*
  
*Turn on the computer.
  
*Insert the Mac OS X Install DVD into the optical drive, or insert the
  MacBook Air Software Reinstall Drive
  into the USB port.
  
*Press and hold the "C" key while the computer starts up. The computer
  will start up using the Install media.
  Alternatively, press and hold the
  Option key at startup to select the
  volume containing the installer.
  
*If your are using a wireless mouse, a mouse icon should appear
  asking you to turn the mouse on so
  that the computer can discover it.
  
*Select a language, then press the right arrow key.
  
*Click the Utilities menu, the choose Disk Utility.
  
*Select a volume to erase (usually called Macintosh HD).
  
*Click the Erase tab.
  
*Click Erase... Important: This step will completely erase your hard
  drive. If you have installed Microsoft
  Windows using Boot Camp, or have
  multiple partitions, this procedure
  will erase the partition you select.
  
*A dialog box appears asking if you want to erase the partition: click
  Erase.
  
*After the partition is erased, choose Quit Disk Utility from the Disk
  Utility menu.
  
  
  Part Two: Installing the operating system
  
  
*
  
*When the Mac OS X Snow Leopard Installer screen appears, click
  Continue.
  
*When the license agreement appears, click Agree.
  
*Select the disk you erased. It should now be highlighted with a green
  arrow.
  
*Click Install. A status bar appears on the bottom of the screen
  while Mac OS X installs.
  
*An Additional Information screen appears, advising you that you
  operating system has been installed.
  Click Continue.
  
*An Install Succeeded screen appears. Click Restart.
  

The OS is now reinstalled, visit this support page to see how to reinstall your applications and configure your user account etc.
