Q: To-do app for Mac OS X I want to organize my to do's for programming an iphone app. I found this, and I really like it, but is not native to Mac OS X. Is there any app similar to it?

A: Things (39$) is best to-do application i've ever used. It's a simple application with powerful features.
My favorite feature is synchronizing between mac/ipad/iphone. One disadvantage that it is paid application.

A: iCal that ships with OS X has a ToDo List feature that works well.
You'll need to be more specific about which features of MyTinyToDo you like, if you are wanting better recommendations.

A: I use ToodleDo for all of my To Do lists. It's a website so it is accessible anywhere (I use it as the default page in my browser on my laptop) and they have a native iPhone app that does a great job syncing. It's not Mac-native, but it is very agreeable to Mac users and you can export your lists as iCal calendars if you so choose. You get a lot of functionality for being free, but it does pay to subscribe if you have long-term uses for it.

A: Just an idea, but you could run MyTinyToDo locally in apache and put it in a widget and put it on your dashboard.  Or use GeekTool to float it on your desktop.

A: You have a lot of good apps for what you'd like to plan. My suggestions are:
Omnifocus for iPhone (it's one of the most expensive on the market but the features are excellent)
-Todo a simple but convenient Todo app, really similar to the one you mentionned and easy to handle, with a cloud sync service for tasks
2Do the one that I can't live without (no joke!), probably the most complete planner app on iPhone.
Hope this will help you make your mind ;)

A: You have the great wunderlist which is free, provides collaboration and a companion iPhone app (also free). Does what it's made for. Customizable and sexy :)
(No I don't work at 6wunderkinder!)

A: Well if you want "native", Why not simply use Mail? It has a "notes" section and it'll sync w/ any ios device out there... Make a new note & at the top type in "To do" & go for it, doesn't get much more "native" than that. 
