Q: How to synchronize iPhone with new Mac without losing data? I've upgraded my workplace with a new Macbook, but I've run into several problems. One of these problems is iPhone synchronization. 
Previously, I synchronized my iPhone with a PC notebook. Now I want to sync it with my new Mac, but I don't want to lose all my app data or re-upload all the music, videos, etc.
Is there any possibility for me to sync with my Mac and not reinstall apps and re-upload music? I know I can use an iPhone file manager (my iPhone is jailbroken) to search all the saves and then reinstall all the apps and then transfer the saves back to phone, but it'll take too much time. Is there a more elegant way to do it?

A: You can move your iTunes library from your PC to your Mac.  As long as the persistent id is the same it won't erase the iPhone.
You could also just edit the Mac iTunes library to have the same persistent id your PC library did.
http://www.iclarified.com/entry/index.php?enid=2137

A: Recently dealt with this problem with my parents upgrading from an iPad 2 to an iPad 3.
The iPad 2 was synced to one laptop, the iPad 3 was destined for another.  We synced the iPad 3 to a backup of the iPad 2 and then went to plug it into the new laptop.  (NOTE: the new laptop had all files from the old library synced via home share first.)  iTunes asked whether to leave it alone or erase the iPad and sync.  After playing around and much googling we went ahead and tried hitting erase and sync.  When you do this, if the two iTunes libraries have the same iTunes account, it will actually make a full backup of the iOS device BEFORE it "erases and syncs."
Once it was done, all files were there, even each app's files and settings.  (Such as PDFs saved in good reader).
This may not have been the case back in 2008 when http://www.iclarified.com/entry/index.php?enid=2137 was posted.  But it seems Apple has caught on, and they just need to reword the message box so they don't scare users into thinking they'll lose everything.
