Q: How can I contact the owner of a lost iPhone who has a password lock? I want to return their phone, but can't access their contacts, etc.

A: Just ask Siri 'what is my name' and it will bring up the contact details for the owner of the phone.
You can also use Siri to post to Facebook, send emails and just abut anything else.
To be fair, upon closer inspection, this seems like a huge gap in the security of an iPhone where you're data isn't actually secure, even when locked. Love it!
Obviously only works if the owner has set their phone to utilise Siri when locked. But I think most people do.

A: If there is a lost and found at the location you found the phone put it there, or turn it over to the police. That is where the person who lost it should be looking for it.
Attempting to break the PIN is just not a good idea, even if you have good intentions. They chose to keep some information confidential (for whatever reason), at the expense of making the phone harder to return if it is lost.

A: *

*Keep it plugged in / charged in case the user is trying to "find my phone" and locate it or send you a contact message. 

*The carrier and apple might take your contact information if you don't want to drop it off with them. Apple might be better than the carrier if there is any doubt as to the proper carrier. 

*Local police should be alerted - they can provide you with your responsibilities as well as how best to get it returned. 


I hope you make the owner very happy. 

A: Starting with iOS 6, owners will be able to help you out by sending a number to the phone using the new "Lost" mode:

IOS 6 and iCloud now offer Lost mode, making it even easier to use
  Find My iPhone to locate and protect a missing device.6 Immediately
  lock your missing iPhone with a four-digit passcode and send it a
  message displaying a contact number. That way a good Samaritan can
  call you from your Lock screen without accessing the rest of the
  information on your iPhone. And while in Lost mode, your device will
  keep track of where it’s been and report back to you any time you
  check in with the Find My iPhone app.


A: 1) Find the phone number, then find the owner
I think the iPhone is locked but not the SIM card. If this is the case, pop the SIM card out. Put it in another phone. Find the number. Now, use the web to do a reverse lookup, find them, find their email or alternate phone, and call them.
2) Find someone who knows the owner
When you set the password, by default the "Voice Dial" is still active. Try holding down the home button for 4 seconds. Even when locked, you might be able to say "Call so-and-so". Try some random names. If someone picks up, explain the situation. They will probably have an alternate means of contacting the owner.
3) Turn the phone on and see if there are recent callers - then use any of these names to try voice calling as in 2 above.

A: By strange coincidence, this exact thing happened to me, so I have the answer:
Wait until the owner's mother calls.  Answer the phone, explain the situation, upon which she will send her husband to collect the phone from your office.*  Shake the father's hand, hand over the phone, and make a funny apple joke (he asked me if I had kids, to-whit I responded, no, but I have an iPhone, so I understand! -- fan boys rejoice).
*As it turns out, the owner was a 15 year old boy.

A: You can try a number of things. To build on mankoff's answer:
1)Try taking out the SIM card and checking if there are any contacts on it. If the iPhone was not the first phone used with that SIM, it may have stored contacts on it.
2)Try "Call home".
Also, I remember seeing this article a while back, I wonder if it still works with iPhone 4: Read iPhone Data with Ubuntu 
Edit (Direct Quote):

Do you have a PIN code on your iPhone?
  Well, while that might protect you
  from someone making a call or fiddling
  with your apps, it doesn’t prevent
  access to your data … as long as the
  person doing the snooping around is
  using Ubuntu “Lucid Lynx” 10.04.
Security experts Bernd Marienfeldt and
  Jim Herbeck discovered something
  really interesting when they hooked up
  a non-jailbroken, fully up-to-date
  iPhone 3GS to a PC running Lucid Lynx
  …
I uncovered a data protection
  vulnerability [9], which  I could
  reproduce on 3 other non jail broken
  3GS iPhones (MC 131B, MC132B) with
  different iPhone OS versions installed
  (3.1.3-7E18 modem firmware 05.12.01
  and version 3.1.2 -7D11, modem
  05.11.07) , all PIN code protected which means the vulnerability bypasses
  authentication for various data where
  people most likely rely on data
  protection through encryption and do
  not expect that authentication is not
  in place.
This is what you get via an auto mount
  without any PIN request:

This data protection flaw exposes
  music, photos, videos, podcasts, voice
  recordings, Google safe browsing
  database, game contents… by in my
  opinion the quickest compromising
  read/write access discovered so far,
  without leaving any track record by
  the attacker. It’s about to imagine
  how many enterprises (e.g. Fortune
  100) actually do rely on the
  expectation that their iPhone 3GS’s
  whole content is protected by
  encryption with an PIN code based
  authentication in place to unlock it.
This, quite honestly, is a staggering
  flaw. It basically allows anyone
  capable of driving a Linux PC to copy
  data off of an iPhone without the
  owner of the phone having any idea
  whatsoever that this has happened.
What’s more worrying is that
  Marienfeldt and Herbeck think that
  write access to the iPhone is only a
  buffer overflow away, which means
  serious access.

Lastly, an Apple store would have the serial number linked to an iPhone, as Philip Reagan suggested.

A: Take it to the Apple store and see if they can sort it out. I would imagine that they have DB of serial numbers and customers even if they didn't sign up with Applecare or MobileMe.

A: You can use Siri to call some of the contacts.  
You probably know no names in his/her contacts list so you should ask Siri:


*

*to call Home

*to call my Mother/father

*to give me the directions to home

*what is my name

*who is my sister/brother.


When you ask Siri about contacts, it would bring up ALL the contacts information that is entered in the iphone/icloud. 
So if the iphone is connected to wifi/3g/4g and siri is enabled, you have access to the owner's identity(home, relative names, other phone numbers, addresses).
If the wifi and 3g is turned off, you would have some hard time dealing with it.

A: I'm trying a different tactic. I wrote a note telling them to call the phone or call my number and I took a picture of it with their phone. Hopefully it will upload to Photo Stream. It looks like 3G is on but I'm not sure if it will only upload over wifi. Oh, well. It's worth a shot...

A: Just wait for the owner to call once they realize they lost it. Just found an iPhone on the way home and as I was searching for 'How to find an owner of a locked iPhone', it rang. The owners wife, Viola'! Set up a meeting and hope someone will do the same for me someday. 

A: plug the phone into iTunes to get data like the name or other identifiers!!
