Q: iPhone 3GS never goes into standby I have noticed a problem with my iPhone 3GS recently. It never goes into standby mode unless I turn on flight mode. 
When I have phone mode on it will keep on running something in the background. I haven't been able to locate what it is. I have tried to close down all the apps which are in the quick access list. I have also turned of the Location Service, Notification, Push. I have practically tried to turn of everything, and nothing help except for if I turn on the flight mode.
Anyone know what the problem might be? This problem is seriously causing the battery to burn down.
UPDATE: ok it seems a simple reset to factory setting fixed it and returned it back to normal. Probably some bug in the iphone tick off when I updated to the latest iOS. Thus made iphone never truely go into standby mode.

A: Have you tried Settings > General > Auto Lock?
Now that you've clarified the question:
The reason why I asked if you were in an area of bad coverage/weak signal is if your signal is weak then your battery will drain quicker.  However most people I know with iPhones would only get 24 hours out of a full charge anyway.  I usually plug it in at night and unplug it when I get up in the morning and generally it will last all day.  If you find your battery is draining too quickly for your liking you can do some of the following.  
Turn off push notifications
Lower screen brightness
Turn off WiFi
Turn off 3G
Close apps which are running in the background  
I'm guessing you haven't had a smartphone before and are used to getting a few days from a full charge.  Smartphones use battery much more quickly than traditional cell phones because of larger screens, more powerful processors and generally more usage.

A: I too have this problem. For me, the solution is to turn off and turn on the iPhone, and everything is again ok.

A: This is probably because of your cell connection. The carrier probably tries to keep a connection alive, even while the phone is not in use. This is to ensure that when a call or SMS comes in, the phone will notify you about it. The battery will probably drain faster if the signal is weaker. Another process that may actively be running is the visual voice mail, which probably checks the carrier's servers for voicemail periodically as well.
The only way to stop these three services (phone, sms, voicemail), is to enter airplane mode. This is probably why you see an increase in battery life when airplane mode is on.
