Q: Is there a Simple minimalistic Twitter iPhone application? I am searching for an iPhone application that does not show or load the timeline. On my phone, I am just interested in tweeting text and/or photos, and consequently, that's what I want my twitter iPhone to do, nothing more, nothing less.
Now I found a good app for just tweeting, but it doesn't let me tweet photos; it's called Birdhouse, it's a really good app. I also have instagram, but it resizes the photos and forces the user to add all kinds of effects. For mentions, which I also care about, I use Notifio which does an amazing job.
So is there an iphone twitter app that let's the user just tweet text and photos, AND that is up to date (by that I mean that it uses oAuth and has been updated once at least in the last three months)? Otherwise, is there a good minimalistic app that just let's users tweet photos with optional text (no effects, no bloat)?

A: Found exactly what you are looking for. It's called SuperPost by, of all people lol,... MySpace. Needless to say, it's free and also can optionally post to Facebook & MySpace simultaneously. It's not too shabby actually.

A: I like echofon and simplytweet. Both of which you can customize to your taste by disabling most, if not all, of other features.

A: Weet & Twitterific are the most minimal of everything I have used. Weet is pretty barebones and lightweight, basically the iPhone version of Itsy. I'm a Tweetbot guy, which is a totally awesome app but it sounds like it does way more than you want.

A: I would say that Twitterific is as close as you can get to minimalist for an iPhone Twitter App - http://twitterrific.com/iphone/

A: If you don't like Instagram, there's also Picplz. It does not alter the image, nor does it force you to add a filter.
But it does not let you tweet just text.

A: I would highly recommend Weet as a minimilistic replacement of the official Twitter application.
Honorable mentions include:


*

*Icebird

*Brizzly

A: Personally, I love it when apps have as little chrome as possible. Two twitter apps that are gorgeous and minimalistic (and manage to retain tons of functionality) are Osfoora and Icebird.
Icebird is great because it has little chrome and there are plenty of options (including picture and video uploading to flickr)
Osfoora is great because of its intuitive jump screen, and its minimal tweet composition UI. They also make an iPad version that is absolutely stellar. 
Both of these are paid apps though, but I wouldn't hesitate on the $2 or $3 purchase.
