Q: Photo sharing with offline viewing for the iPad I'm looking for a solution to easily share photos with family members around the world. I realise there are dozens of photo-sharing sites, but I'm looking for something that has


*

*native iPad compatibility

*syncing / auto-download

*offline viewing

*access control

*simple interface


This is aimed at grandparents keeping in touch with their new grandbabies, so simplicity is important. The offline viewing is also key as I expect they will want to take their iPad on the go as a 'brag book' to share with friends when/where internet is not available (or too slow).
One option is MobileMe Gallery. I'm not crazy about the subscription fee, but it is acceptable. It caches photos when they are viewed which is acceptable, but not as great as sync / auto-download of new photos.
I've also checked out Dropbox which has the advantage of not requiring a subscription fee. It caches photos on the iPad the same as MobileMe Gallery. But it doesn't have an easy export from iPhoto which is a drawback. 
The questions are... Is MobileMe Gallery fit for purpose? Are there alternatives? Are there better solutions?

A: Dropbox would probably do this. Or at least some of this. 
It is possible to set up several Dropbox accounts (i.e., one for you and one for different family members) and share folders between those accounts. This would enable you to upload photos and they would be shared immediately in the shared folder. 
Dropbox provides a Photos folder which can be organised into a web album for viewing via the web page or in the iOS app. The most recent release of the iOS app has just included photo cacheing so that it doesn't need to be online to show photos. 
Not entirely sure that this would be a great solution but it might solve some of the issues. Also, not entirely sure that the sharing and photo features work quite as I have described but would be worth experimenting with.

This link explains how to set it up: http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/quickly-set-share-beautiful-photo-galleries-dropbox/

A: Perhaps the most awkward answer, but this is how I do it. I view the photo online and take a screen grab of it.

A: Picasa from Google might solve this. Picasa offers a Mac application which allows you to easily upload photos stored in your iPhoto library to the Picasa web site. They can either be made private, public or shared with friends.
There are also a number of iPhone/iPad apps that can be used to access Picasa. They seem to all be third-party apps and seem to charge and I can't really comment on the quality of any of them.

A: I've used MobileMe Gallery for the last year which ticked most of the boxes.  However, with it coming to an end, I've had to reevaluate my solution and thought I'd update this question with my latest answer. 
I've gone with Flickr as a photosharing service and the FlickStackr iPad app.
One of the primary reasons for selecting Flickr was the integration with iPhoto. It makes it easy to upload and manage albums. Flickr is also a robust and powerful service with API access allowing other developers to write apps that use the service which provides many options. I evaluated many apps and selected FlickStackr primarily for its offline capabilities. It will queue up and automatically download photos and display them without issue while offline. 

A: There are two great apps that do this for you, one is called CameraSync the other is called PhotoSync. Sorry you'll have to search the app store for them as im on my phone so I can't copy the links (maybe someone will be good enough to edit this answer and add the links).
Anyway, they both sync photos to your iPad and they're made even better as they both sync with services like Picasa and Dropbox! Meaning you can use Picasa or Dropbox on you computer to sync and use one of these two apps on your iPad.
