Q: Does Thunderbolt support chaining multiple monitors to a MacBook Pro? This has always been a big want for me. I love using multi-monitor setups but only want a single laptop. Does the 2011 MBP Thunderbolt support chaining multiple monitors together? I know that you can add a monitor and say, a few hard drives, but can you connect it to 2 27" monitors and your flat screen TV (for example)? Thanks!

A: It is possible now with the new MBP's and the new Thunderbolt displays.

A: "Any DisplayPort 1.1 device needs to be the last in a daisy chain."  So you will need some newer monitor (which doesn't seem to exist yet) in the middle.

A: The MacBook Pro allows two Thunderbolt displays to be hooked up. apple.com/displays


A: Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays.


*

*http://support.apple.com/kb/HT4885
The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained. In fact, the devices you daisy chain doesn't matter, nor does the order they are in. However, like with the Display Port and eSATA, the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature. Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining, this will not be possible.
The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port, the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself. The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices. Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient. Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port.
Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream. Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon, I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule.

A: Now that the Thunderbolt Display has been released, we can safely say Yes! It even has a picture of it being used this way on the Thunderbolt Display's features page on Apple.com =D

A: Talked to Apple reseller today, and they seemed to confirm that at the moment no such displays are available. There is also the challenge of providing power, and also how to mix different units (and also what about older standards which can be connected to Thunderbolt?), so I guess a lot has to happen in the time to come. I'm optimistic, but don't believe that this will solve all our problems...
