Q: Headphones that look good on a desk next to a MacBook I'm looking for some headphones that will be aesthetically (and acoustically) pleasing when combined with my MacBook Pro (2011, aluminum unibody). 
Requirements:


*

*Over-the-ear style (not earbuds or ear-canal buds) 

*Closed design (in order to block out some outside noise and avoid leaking noise.) 

*Pretty (I realize this is subjective)

*Great-sounding 

*Durable

*Under $400 

*Wireless optional (I'm not sure if there are any great-sounding, great-looking wireless headphones)


I'm currently considering:


*

*V-Moda Crossfade, ~$175

*Sennheiser RS-160 (wireless), ~$195 

*Bowers & Wilkins P5, ~$300

*Denon AHD2000, ~350


Notes:
The transmitter for the Sennheisers takes batteries, so there's no extra wire or wall wart, but it is kind of bulky. 
I haven't seen any nice Bluetooth headphones that support A2DP (stereo audio profile for bluetooth). That would be ideal -- no wires, no transmitter required.
Bottom Line:
If you have experience with any of the headphones I'm considering, I'd love to hear it. If there are headphones I've overlooked, please let me know!

A: Beats by Dr. Dre SOLO HD
They sounds amazing, looks nice and got a clean look. Here is a review.
Price: ~229.95 USD.

A: Seriously, I´ve never felt more comfortable then when wearing the AKG K701 (Amazon.com link) headphones, I´ve worn them for 6 hours straight without getting red hot, sweaty ears. They are a piece of beauty (in my perspective) and offer a neutral, nearly analytical soundscape. 
Just have a look at the reviews - they are an immediate buy recommendation!

A: Have you looked at the Bose QuietComfort 15?
I have been using these headphones for a few years now and they are excellent and very comfortable. With the noise canceling engaged and some quiet music playing, almost all outside noise goes away completely. They are comfortable enough that I can wear them for several hours and feel no discomfort. They cost about $300. The only negative is that in order to play music, you must have the noise canceling feature turned on which requires a battery. So if you happen to be on the road (say, in an airplane) and your battery dies, you are SOL. So definitely make sure you have a spare charged AAA battery nearby.
Aesthetic looks were never that important to me, but from comparing the other products you list, the Bose headset looks very similar so it should satisfy you in that department. 
Good luck with your decision!

A: For casual listening you just can't beat the comfort and sound from a pair of Grado headphones. At your budget the SR325iare a great choice. They are open air so some sound will be heard in the vicinity near you, but they're not that loud to others around you.
They happen to look nice as well.

A: I got the following advice from ghoppe:

I bought the B&W P5 when they were on
  sale on the Apple store and do not
  regret it. They sound amazing, look
  amazing, and so far have been very
  durable. One of my fave tech purchases
  ever.

Based on that advice, I bought the Bowers & Wilkins P5. They look great, are comfortable, don't leak noise, and passively block out a reasonable amount of background noise.
When I'm not using them, they sit on a Woo Audio Aluminum Headphone Stand.
