Q: Where can I find replacement feet for my MacBook Pro? I've got a 2009 Unibody MBP, and the feet are starting to fall off.  I've lost one and one I have kept in a safe place.
Does anyone know where I can get replacement feet?  I looked on Ebay to no avail.
EDIT:
Well thanks for the answers so far, however nothing is turning up.  I just got off the phone with the Genius bar at the local Apple store, and they said it simply doesn't exist.  They want to sell me an entire "Lower Case" ... big $$$ for something so trivial.
Still looking for more suggestions.

A: I had an old Powerbook G3 that had lost 2 of it's rubber feet. Instead of trying to replace them with the same ones, I just went to a hardware store and bought the little rubber stick-on feet that you could put on the bottom of furniture or a TV stand or whatever. Cost all of about 99 cents and worked perfectly.
They looked something like this:


A: I just got back from the Genius bar and actually had the exact same issue.  I had two feet fail, both having different attachment methods.  The foot under the upper left of the keyboard was attached without any adhesive, the foot had plastic "feet" that "snapped" into a black metal piece attached to the bottom case.  The foot under the lower left of the keyboard was attached with adhesive to the outside of the bottom case and further secured with an additional plastic ring running along the inside of the bottom case (this ring broke apart from the foot in addition to the adhesive failing on my machine).
I went to the local Genius bar and the cost of the bottom case ended up being covered by apple care.  Even if apple care had not covered the bottom case, the bottom case was only $38.89.

A: You can find a set of 4 replacement feet (along with other Mac replacement parts) at PowerBook Medic

A: They sell the set of 4 here. You can also get a single foot.
http://www.pbparts.com/shop.php//0761398.html

A: You might be able to get some from Apple, I would try there first. Otherwise I do not believe there is an vendor for them.
You could consider molding some foam feet, or custom making your own. Otherwise just deal with it. I've seen several people who either made their own substitute or gone without.

A: It has been a few years since I had to replace any of the feet on my laptops (the current ones are pretty well attached), but they used to provide them for free at Apple retail stores if you asked at the Genius Bar. They probably have them now unless they are bonded to the bottom case.
