Q: How can a keyboard be shared with an iPad? What are the ways for both an iMac and an iPad to share the same physical keyboard?
If it's possible to share a regular Apple bluetooth keyboard between both devices without jailbreaking the iPad, I think it would be my favored option.

A: I don't think you can. Bluetooth is designed such that pairing is two-way (computer <-> device). You can't pair to a second device without un-pairing from the first device.

A: Bluetooth only allows pairing with one device at a time.

A: This might help you, or at least lead you in the right direction.
http://modmyi.com/forums/iphone-news/716935-synergy-ipad-share-your-mouse-keyboard.html

A: Theoretically using the computer as a middle man, You could set a hotkey to switch between the two? No program exists to do it though :(

A: This has worked well for me - especially when I turn off the bluetooth on the current device that has the bluetooth keyboard paired, then turn on the bluetooth on the other.
Sometimes, then pair to the closest device when I power cycle the keyboard.
You have to do the initial pairing on each, but I've not had issues using one Apple Bluetooth keyboard with more than one "computer" - be it a Mac or an iOS device like an iPhone or an iPad.
You of course can't have the one keyboard drive both at the same time - this only works in sequence.

A: Logitech made a solar bluetooth keyboard allowing keyboard to pair 3 device .
With your apple bluetooth keyboard, 
JUC400 Wormhole switch will do this.
Or
If you use mac, app "type2phone"is a altinative solution.

A: It exists for the Mac, so I guess it could be possible even for Windows.

Type2Phone: Virtual Bluetooth Keyboard
Type2Phone lets you use your Mac as Bluetooth keyboard to your iPhone,
  iPad or Apple TV.
Type on your full-sized keyboard. The text will appear on your iOS
  device. Prepare text on your Mac and then paste it to your mobile
  device.
Benefits
  
  
*
  
*Use your Mac as a keyboard to type SMS text messages at full speed
  
*Send tweets. 
  
*Update your Facebook status. 
  
*Chat. With the comfort of a full keyboard
  
*Reply to emails on accounts configured only on your iPhone
  
*Paste addresses, passwords, … from your Mac to your iPhone
  
*Use AppleScript to automate text input to your iPhone
  
  
  Requirements
  
  
*
  
*Mac with Bluetooth enabled
  
*Mac OS X 10.6.6
  
*iPhone (3GS or later), iPad (all models), iPod touch (3rd generation or later). iOS 3.2 or later
  
*Apple TV with software version 5.2 (January 2013) or later
  


A: An alternative to the regular Apple bluetooth keyboard is the Kanex Multi-Sync Keyboard.
This keyboard can be paired with four devices, paired through Bluetooth with each of the devices just once, and you can then use the Multi-Sync Keyboard with it with just a tap of a button. Another device can be connected through USB.
This keyboard has a numeric keypad built in for those spreadsheet editing, but also features iOS-specific keys for your favorite iDevice. It operates on two AAA batteries, and can also be used in a USB-wired mode if needed.
It retails in the UK at £69.00.
