Q: Is it possible to update iPhone4  to a provider-neutral OS so WiFi hotspot can be enabled? I want to use an original (non jailbroken) iPhone4 to access the internet with an iPad. 
This should is possible using the Personal wifi hotspot included in iOS 4.3 as mentioned in Can I use tethering to share my iPhone's connection with my iPad?, however some providers (such as the Dutch T-mobile) have removed this feature in a localised version of the OS.
Is there a (legitimate) way to update to a "generic" iOS so I can use the Personal Hotspot to tether my iPad or is there another (legitimate) way to not have to get the 3G iPad and an extra sim card.
Please note I am in Europe, i.e. not on AT&T or Verizon

A: It is not a carrier localized version of the OS that is installed on the iPhone. There is one iOS release image for each hardware model. What changes for each mobile network is the carrier settings, which is downloaded either OTA (iOS4+) or by iTunes when the phone is activated or connected and an update is available.  
If you have the released from any carrier lock then if you move to another mobile provider supporting the tethering feature then their carrier settings will enable the preference. 

A: Maybe this would help you?
Mac: http://support.apple.com/kb/DL851
Win: http://support.apple.com/kb/DL926

A: I doubt the feature is removed from your version of the iOS. The carrier has complete control over whether or not this feature is visible on your iPhone by configuring your account with them. In my case, I am a US AT&T customer with an iPhone 4, but because I don't pay for the plan that has tethering as an option, when I go to the Settings panel, I do not see a preference to turn on/off tethering. My friend who is also a US AT&T customer with an iPhone 4 and the correct plan that allows tethering, has the phone tethering on/off option where I have none (we've compared our settings screens).
I wouldn't waste time trying to track down some non-localized version of the OS in the hopes that this feature is going to be there.
Sorry. I wish I had better news for you.
