Q: How can I ditch iTunes and find a suitable audio player? With the recent features added to iTunes player I find it to be pretty heavy and resources consuming, just to do just what I would like it to do, which is play music. It is almost becoming a full OS which I do not like.
Therefore, I'd like to find something lightweight to build some playlists based on the music I have on my hard-drive, possibly free (but not a requisite). Do you have any alternatives which you would like to share?

A: I suggested you try SongBird.
also you can choose:


*

*PicoPlay

*VoxApp

*Banshee


A: After doing a Google quest for a free audio player I found Instinctiv.

It has a great UI and Mac look and calls itself "A Better Music Experience". Is anyone aware of this application? How do you feel about it?
After a little test drive with the software I can say that it really is an enjoyable experience and the announced smart shuffle is a nice feature. It uses the iTunes library so you can just press play and you'll be fine.

A: Vox (free with in-app purchase)
A great simple application for music playing. I love this app. It's sooo simple to use and to use. It also integrates nicely with your iTunes library (if you so desire).


A: UPDATE: Everplay is no longer developed (and nowhere to be found). 
Leaving the answer around in case someone eventually takes over. Also there are alternatives to Spotify these days, like Google All Access Music, iTunes Match, Amazon Music, etc. As the world moves towards cloud based alternatives, you probably want to consider these too.

Everplay is a nice iTunes alternative because it can read the iTunes library but it’s way more light, given that it doesn’t attempt to cook breakfast and wash your car. It’s a music player.
It’s not free but offers a nice trial. Give it a shot.
Of course, if you are in Europe, you can always use the excellent (and free) Spotify.

A: Tomahawk
A music player that fundamentally changes the way music is consumed and shared. It decouples the name of the song from the source it was shared from - and fulfills the request using all of your available sources. (Free)

Fidelia 
A high-definition audio player for sophisticated music lovers. With support for all contemporary audio file formats and an elegant interface that focuses exclusively on music, it gives users the power and the freedom to organize, customize and savor their digital music collection at the highest possible fidelity in any circumstance. If you've invested in premium audio hardware, you should have the best audio software. (Premium)

Sonora
A minimal, beautifully designed music player for the Mac. (Open source)

Ecoute
The standalone music player based upon your iTunes library. Fetch you Music, Movies, TV Shows and Podcasts.

G-Ear 
The Google Music player for your Mac - Now with All Access support 

More info on G-Ear Player.
Additional info regarding Google's New Play Music All Access Service:
Google Launches “Google Play Music All Access” On-Demand $9.99 A Month Subscription Service

Swinsian
The Advanced Music Player for Mac OS X.

Premium product ($19.95), however a 30 day free trial is available.
