Q: What is a good GTD app with cloud sync on iPhone, iPad, and Mac? I am looking for a good GTD (todo/task/project management) app that has cloud sync. I'd like it to be on my iPhone, iPad and Mac. Web app would be nice, too.
OmniFocus is the closest thing I've found but it seems too expensive.
Things don't have clound sync... only WiFi sync is available for Things.
Do you know of any GTD app I'm looking for?
Thanks!

A: Check Wunderlist by 6Wunderkinder: http://www.6wunderkinder.com/wunderlist/
It's free. Iphone and ipad apps are available on itunes app store.

A: I found a good, cheap alternative to OmniFocus in ToodleDo. It is browser-based (it doesn't get much more "cloud" than that), but they also have an iOS app for offline use. I've been using it for a few years now and have had little complaints even at their prices (free to a fraction of OmniFocus).
As a sidenote, OmniFocus does support cloud-based syncing. From the product page:

Sync
You can’t accomplish your goals if you
  don’t have them with you. OmniFocus
  synchronizes your task database with a
  server or disk, so that all of your
  Macs, your iPhone, and your iPod Touch
  are up-to-date. Sync over your local
  network using Bonjour, through the
  cloud using MobileMe or any standard
  WebDAV server, or even with something
  as simple as a USB drive.

I believe this is a recent development since their iOS apps. OmniGroup products are not cheap, but they are definitely worth the expense.

A: *

*Doit.im which has a web app + iPhone and Android apps. What sets Doit.im appart from e.g. toodledo and producteev is that it is more tailored towards GTD rather than generic task management (though inspired by GTD).

*Dejumble is a Mac app which does cloud sync with its companion iPhone app.
I have used both apps, but I am sticking with Omnifocus. Doit.im is free, and Dejumble is not. I have had some high CPU usage issues with Dejumble too.
Edit: I would also say that Doit.im has more organizational features/attributes per task than wunderlist.

A: I  use Things. Since version 2, it now has a Cloud synch option. I can enter or move items on my iPad and iPhone, as well as Macs running either 10.6.8 or 10.8.5. I haven't upgraded to Mavericks yet, so can't comment on how it works there.

A: Check out Producteev - it's got a great iOS and Web app, and a Mac desktop app coming soon. It seems a bit more fully featured than Wunderlist as well. It's also got a recurring tasks feature, push notifications...
There website looks a bit cluttered, but the service does work pretty well.

I've tried a bunch of different apps, and so far this is the most usable/reliable one I've found.

A: Just learned about http://getflow.com the other day. Looking good, but a bit expensive, I think...

A: I've tried all of those above and, I'm a big wunderlist person but, I just found Workflowy. This is a simple and clean program. The designer does a great job at tutorials to walk you through. For me it just works, I tend to over organized with some of the other programs, which destroys the purpose of using them, to get things done. hope this helps. Blessings-
https://workflowy.com/
