Q: Automaticly and seamlessly sync iPhone photos as soon as they're taken (over the air) I use Snappy. That's my preferred photo app of all! So, please, keep this in mind.
Ideally I want to be able to sync to picasa and dropbox. But I wouldn't mind if it was flickr, picposterous or whatever, as long as it's really automatic and seamless, unlike this guy's solution. I've tried many apps and couldn't find a single one (apparently unlike this guy, which is the reason why I started this question).
Dropbox app like few others do let you take photos from inside the app and submit the photo. But that's not even a seamless sync - if there's no internet connection the photo won't be sent as soon as internet becomes available unless the app stays open.
Maybe a good solution would be just an app able to monitor the DCIM folder and send any new ones through e-mail as soon as it sees it. Then we could use pixelpipe, instapaper, sendtodropbox or anything! That way the iOS already handles sending e-mails exactly the way we expect - it will go through as soon as a connection is available.
For now, I'm using Picbox - it softens the whole manual process at least... But that's still not it!

A: I too have tried to find something to do this, with little success. Documenting what people have tried may be helpful, so here's my list:


*

*Cinq -- offers to sync with iPhoto on the Mac, or to the filesystem on a Mac or PC; only works for photos taken within Cinq

*DropPhox -- syncs with Dropbox; only works for photos taken within DropPhox

*Eye-Fi -- syncs to local machine, and lots of online services (Picasa and Flickr but not Dropbox); free (although nags to upgrade); will sync photos that were taken with any camera app on the iPhone; requires (as far as i can see) an Eye-Fi card to set up an account and get it working


All of these have their drawbacks; would love to find the app that can upload all photos automatically. 

A: Looks like telepathy has been proven since for sure nobody from apple read my "suggestion" here!
