Q: What's the best way to sync Chrome bookmarks to iPhone? I use Google Chrome on my Mac as my browser, and I'd like to be able to have access to my bookmarks on my iPhone. Safari provides bookmark syncing automatically, and Mozilla has an app that provides that functionality, but I the only thing I can find is Xmarks which is a) paid, and b) synchronizes with a third-party service, instead of utilizing Google's existing bookmark sync for Chrome. Are there any other solutions?

A: You could give Xmarks a try. Works fine for me.
You install it as a plugin for Chrome, and as a pref pane for your Mac. Your Mac will be synchronized to your iPhone.
I didn't try the mobile app yet.

A: Since I don't have the reputation to comment, I have to put this in an answer.
I can second the XMarks service as a great way to sync bookmarks between browsers, especially Internet Explorer (IE) and Safari, and especially if you want to sync your iPhone bookmarks with Firefox.  There are problems with duplicates from time to time, but that is mitigated with a Duplicate Detector plugin for Firefox.
However, the XMarks service will be shutting down as of January 2011.  There is information in this blog post as to how it might live on.
http://blog.xmarks.com/?p=1945

A: Chrome bookmarks on iPhone are possible with help of ChromeSync app.
Details are at www.chromesync.mobi

A: Just download the free (!) Google Chrome app on your iPhone and then you can simply share and sync all your desktop bookmarks to your iPhone/iPad.


A: I've been looking for a similar solution, and would definitely recommend Xmarks! It will sync your bookmarks on any browser that you install the plugin.

A: You can synchronize everything with Synchromium. It does not require installation of any Chrome extension or transfering your data to third-party services.

A: I won't use XMarks because you have to subscribe ($12 a year - AU?), plus, last time I had Xmarks and Chrome sync, they never worked well together when I had multiple browsers (Firefox, Chrome) on multiple computers.
I won't trust ChromeSync either yet - look at the notes for it in iTunes (currently at 1.2). It uses a proxy and there are no ratings for it yet.
What I want is the equivalent of ChromeMarks (from Android) which was brilliant. It kept my Chrome bookmarks separate i.e. not in mobile Safari - because I want my 'mobile' bookmarks only in Safari.

A: It costs $12 a year to use xmarks. As a result it is not free to sync across platforms.

A: I love Dolphin for smartphone instead of chrome.
with dolphin you can easily sync bookmarks between chrome and push link between them....
tryi t for a while you wont regret.
