Q: Can I see my CPU and memory usage meters in the menu bar? I'd like to be able to view my cpu and memory usage in real time.  Not as a desktop widget or window application, but as a widget in the menu bar.  Is this possible?

A: I made a simple app that displays cpu and memory usage on menubar, free and open sourced. Feedback is welcome.
https://github.com/ningt/iStats


A: I created a free app that shows percentage on the menu bar:

You can download it from here:
https://github.com/joelmora/macos-activity-monitor

A: I use MenuMeters for this functionality, and have a hard time living without it.  How do other people know when their web browser is finally done downloading a page, or YouTube stalled out, or iPhoto still working, or ...?
MenuMeters is freeware, but well worth the donation.
The original author has stopped maintaining MenuMeters, but someone new has taken over for El Capitan.  

A: I prefer SystemPal. iStat itself consumes too much CPU and RAM. SystemPal is quick, tiny, configurable, neat, and powerful. It's available on Mac App Store.

A: Not sure how long this has been a feature, but it's possible to replace the Activity Monitor dock icon with a graph showing CPU usage, CPU history, network usage, or disk activity.

For example, showing CPU history turns the icon into this little graph:


A: iStat Menus has the functionality you are asking for. It is available starting at USD$14.39 for a single license or $17.99 for a family pack (up to five different Macs). It's also included with a membership to SetApp.

A: Check out iGlance it's open source.



A: A free open source solution is CpuInfo on GitHub (shows cpu only)

A: I really liked eul. Slick design and great configuration ability. Widgets are also available.


brew install --cask eul

or install from Mac App Store.

A: One that hasn't been mentioned yet is Stats, which describes itself as a

Simple macOS system monitor in your menu bar

It's an excellent open source project (https://github.com/exelban/stats) that can be installed via:
brew install stats


On big sur, after downloading, open launchpad, search for 'stats', and open it. It will start showing up in the menu bar.

A: Or you can try some geeklets from the internet (or make one yourself) on Geektool. I find it more customizable than menu bar apps, and prettier when I get to use the fonts and sizes I like.

A: Haven't seen this one mentioned yet: Menu Bar Stats 3
