Q: Finder says I have 20GB free. Why does Bootcamp say I don't have 10GB free? I'm trying to partition my Macbook Air's SSD for dual-boot with Boot Camp (which I've done several times before)... however, it's not seeing 10GB free, yet I have 20.56GB free as per Finder, and Disk Utility sees 10.9GB unused space.  
What's going on?  How can I force this to work?  Can I use disk utility and image to an external drive and restore?  Would vastly prefer an easier method of course

A: You may be just reading the wrong figure in Disk Utility, have a look at the quote below from the apple discussion forums

Disk Utility will show two different
  "free" readings, depending on where
  you look.
Sounds odd, but they're for different
  purposes. The larger figure, which the
  Finder and other things will use, is
  the total free space available.
The second is the amount of free space
  available for a new partition. It's
  shown when you select the top line for
  the drive, click the Partition tab,
  then select a partition, the
  "Available" amount may be smaller. 
This is because partitions, unlike
  folders, must occupy contiguous space
  on a disk. The data on your OSX
  partition is scattered over it, not
  all nicely packed together. That's
  normal, as you add, update, and delete
  files, not every nook and cranny is
  used again immediately.
But whether there's 7 GB free or 18,
  that probably isn't enough to be
  adding a partition; it's probably too
  little for OSX to operate well.
  There's no "hard and fast" rule, but
  you should always have at least 10 GB
  or 10% of your OSX drive free; many
  folks say 15% or more.
You could back up your drive (on two
  different HDs, to be safe), reformat
  it to 2 parttions, then restore the
  backup. But it's going to be very
  tight, and you'll likely have
  performance problems because of it.
Try to delete anything you don't need,
  and/or offload stuff you don't use
  often and delete it.


A: Boot camp wants 10GB of continous space, if there is even a little file somewhere cutting that 10gb it shows the error message.
How I got around this issue:


*

*Open up disk utility and shrink your primary partition down by about 12 GB, in effect making 12 GBs of un-partitioned space. (WARNING: this might kill some data at the end of the disk but for me everything seemed to be ok)

*Then I repartitioned the primary partition back to the full amount, in effect creating 12GB of contiguous empty space.

*Run Boot Camp Assistant and no more "10 GB" error message!
Alternatively I though about looking in to defragging the hard drive.

A: Do you have TRIM enabled ??
If not you can do it like this: http://osxdaily.com/2011/03/27/enable-trim-ssd-mac-os-x-10-6-7/

A: See solution at http://datafilos.blogspot.cz/2012/04/boot-camp-assistant-error.html that helped me.

A: 10.9 is perilously close to the 10GB required. I suggest you arrange things so you have 12GB reported free by Disk Utility and then try again. However, I'd be more concerned abot the reporting discrepancy.
The fact you have Finder reporting a different amount of free space than Disk Utility tells me something is screwed up with your data. They should both report the same. I would think it worthwhile to backup your disk, reformat it and copy your data back, file by file. Better safe than sorry.
