Q: What is the universal Document format on the Macintosh? (format you can be sure any Mac can display)? I'm preparing a document for Macintosh users.
Currently the document is in .doc format.
Will all Mac OSX users be able to view that format?
If not, is there a better universal format to use? (.RTF, .PDF, etc.)

A: Any RTF or PDF will be viewable by all Mac users. Mac users without Word installed can still use "QuickLook" to view a .doc file but it is less convenient.

A: How about plain text? Does this document really need all that formatting?
And putting aside the Mac issue, why would you use .doc for something that .rtf could do just as well?

A: The very purpose of PDF is to present documents in a format ALL systems (Mac, Windows, Linux etc.) will display correctly, in such a way that the viewer cannot edit (useful for legal docs for example).

A: Text files with Markdown formatting? Should be forward and backward compatible in perpetuity...

A: PDFs will open in Preview for viewing - no Adobe Reader required. RTF will open in TextEdit, and can be edited, also with no optional software required. Which one is better depends on whether you want the user to be able to edit the document, or just read it.

A: Another alternative is HTML which I would prefer over pdf if the information is mainly text as the viewer can alter font and window sizes to suit themselves. It is also read only like pdf

A: Yes.  Textedit can read .DOC files.
If the formatting is particularly important, as always, you may want to use .PDF instead.  Any Mac of reasonably recent vintage can read either of those formats out of the box.

A: The only truly "universal" format is text. As in a plain .txt file.
Any Mac can open .txt, .rtf, .doc,. pdf. No extra software involved. Which is one step ahead of Windows which cannot open a .pdf without additional software, such as Adobe Reader or FoxIt.
For readability go with .pdf, otherwise if you can certainly stick with .txt, especially if it needs to be modified, copied, etc by the reader.
