Q: Original iTunes Library Gone, How to ReBuild Library On New Drive? I have lost my original source itunes library music and files.  
However, I do have backup copies of everything on an external disk, I copied the original files and organization structure of the old library to an external disk.  (we'll call this external disk 1)
I need to rebuild my library in a hurry, on a new external disk! (external disk 2)
My question is, how do I do this, so my new library (on external disk 2) is exactly the same as the original?
Any help you could provide me with would be sincerely appreciated!
Looking forward to hearing your solution!

A: The simplest way (fewest steps) is 


*

*Copy the iTunes folder from old (disk 1) to new (disk 2)

*Start iTunes with the option key depressed and select the library from the new (disk 2)


Do edit your post or comment back if there are additional factors to take into account or if this doesn't work for some reason. Assuming your backup is good, complete and you preserved the correct location of all the files - iTunes will remember the new disk as long as it's always connected before it starts. 
If things look good - I would check the following as well


*

*Verify the iTunes Media Folder Location in "Advanced Preferences tab" is pointing to the correct folder on new (disk 2)

*Select File -> Library -> Organize Library from the iTunes menu to have iTunes apply the current settings from the previous step.


Down the road once you are sure things are working - it might be better to keep only the Media Folder on the new (disk 2) and move all the other files to your home folder. This lets you start iTunes for iOS device syncs and such when the external is not connected. I wouldn't do both things the same week. Just get things working for now :-)

A: What's the problem with copying the entire iTunes Library folder to the new disk, then using the Add to Library feature (File>Add to Library) and selecting the folder on the new disk?
Surely this rebuilds a new Library based on the iTunes folder on disk 2?
