Q: Access localhost on iPad I want to access my web application on iPad for local testing (http://myMachine_Name). But here is the problem;


*

*I am having a local copy on my Windows machine with a Weblogic server running and the app server requires a VPN connection

*Is there any way by which I can access http://myMachine_Name on the iPad , and given that my local machine would be connected to VPN.

*Is there any iPad app which can help in testing..My main purpose is to have the fastest way to test any changes I make on the iPad and that I think would be to directly access http://myMachine_Name on the iPad Safari. But I do not know how.


Note: By VPN, I mean it is connected to another network at a remote location. Also the iPad is connected to the internet via a Wifi connection on MAC which is on the same local network as my Windows machine..
I think having VPN connectivity on the iPad might be an option, but I'll want to avoid that as that would require paying huge licensing fee.
Please let me know if I need to provide any other clarifications..
Thank you.

A: You don't want to access localhost on your iPad because you're not running a webserver on your iPad. I'm not sure if I understand the question, but it sounds like you are running the webserver on you Windows machine and you can access it on that machine at http://windows-pc-name.
I'm not entirely sure what you mean by "the app server requires a VPN connection," but it sounds like you need to connect to the remote network in order to run the webapp. Generally all traffic is sent over VPN so that is probably why you can't visit http://windows-pc-name on your iPad's browser. I would see if you can configure your webserver to use VPN, and not have your Windows network connection go through VPN. That way the server can communicate with the remote network, but it won't interfere with anything else.
Just in case you are using the wrong name, try http://192.168.1.101 or whatever you Windows Machine's local IP address is.

A: you can not access your local computer to the ipad because ipad runs in web service well if you connect computer and ipad both of them to internet then you can access through ipad vpn.
