Q: Why are Firefox and Safari having problems with certain PDF files on the web? I'm having fits with a certain web PDF document using both Firefox and Safari.  Basically the document in question doesn't consist of one big pdf file; rather it consists of a bunch (20 or so) smaller files, one for each chapter or section, and the main page has file links to each of them.  In Firefox on a PC, clicking on the link for section 22 simply opens that PDF in the existing in-browser window.  In Safari or Firefox on Mac... it doesn't do anything - I can't navigate to or view section 22.  Similarly, downloading the individual files and saving them doesn't seem to work very well either, though I am thinking of downloading them and trying to re-create locally the directory/file structure the links seem to expect - still kind of a PITA.
Link to PDF document
Does anyone know of any browser add-on or other tool that could be used to view something like this on a Mac?

A: Adobe's Safari plugin for their PDF Reader doesn't work in 64 bit mode (and they don't supply a Firefox/Mac plugin at all!).
Try this Adobe kb article to see if setting 32-bit mode for Safari will work for you.  I had similar isses a while back, and I had to reinstall Reader (after upgrading to Snow Leopard) after doing this tip.

A: There are some PDFs that the built-in PDF viewer can not handle - mostly using newer features available in Adobe Acrobat or linking to remote content. (This does not appear to be the case)
One option is to download and install Adobe Reader for Mac OS X which can handle these PDFs correctly. It will also install an Internet Plug-in to hand off handling of PDFs to the Adobe Reader program but you will notice a significant delay in the loading of PDFs.
The other workaround is download the other PDFs directly from the following URL:
http://www.nrahq.org/compete/RuleBooks/HPR/hpr-w##.pdf (replace the ## with 01 through 22 for each section and the ## with "Illustra" for the Illustration page and the w## with "apdx" for the appendix).

A: I think the issue is the way the Mac PDF viewers display links to files vs. links to URLs.
I opened your PDF in Acrobat Pro X and can see the links have an action of opening a file instead of a URL.
Modify the link properties to specify an action of "Open a web link" instead of "Open a file" and the links should work in the browser.
I modified your hpr-index.pdf and changed one of the links to open the URL: http://www.nrahq.org/compete/RuleBooks/HPR/hpr-w03.pdf
Viewing the file in Safari using the native PDF viewer opened the correct file when clicking the link in the PDF.
