Q: How to add user to a group on command line? With Linux/Unix, I can use useradd -G developers vivek to add vivek to the developer group. How can I do the same thing with Mac OS X?
Then, how do I check if vivek is in developers group?

A: Two ways:
From the terminal

Everything here should be done on the
  command line 
  First start dscl like this:
$ dscl localhost
Then cd to the Groups node:
cd /Local/Default/Groups
You can see all the groups using ls.
  Once you have found the group you are
  interested in, you can view all its
  properties with cat groupname. When
  you are ready to add a user (username)
  to the group (groupname), use the
  following command:
append groupname GroupMembership
  username
If you want to remove a member from a
  group, use the following command (be
  careful!):
delete groupname GroupMembership
  username
When you are finished with your
  changes, exit dscl by typing exit.

And the apple official way:

Choose Apple menu > System
  Preferences, and then click Accounts.
  Open Accounts preferences Step 2
If the preferences pane is locked,
  click the lock icon and enter an
  administrator name and password. Step
  3
Click the Add (+) button, located
  below the list of accounts, to create
  a new account. Step 4
Select a Group from the New Account
  pop-up menu. Step 5
Enter a name for the group, and then
  click Create Group. Step 6
Select the checkboxes by the accounts
  to be members in the group.


A: To add a user to a group:
dseditgroup -o edit -a vivek -t user developers

(Note: you can also do this with dscl as in @hobs' answer, but you really should both add the user's short name to the GroupMembership list, and also add the user's GeneratedUID to the GroupMembers list.  dseditgroup does both with a single operation.)
To check membership:
dseditgroup -o checkmember -m vivek developers

Or:
dsmemberutil checkmembership -U vivek -G developers

To remove a user from a group:
dseditgroup -o edit -d vivek -t user developers

(Again, you can do this with dscl, but need to remove the user from both GroupMembership and GroupMembers.  dseditgroup does both.)

A: I've used this one-liner:
sudo dscl localhost -append /Local/Default/Groups/thegroupname GroupMembership theusername

