Q: Is there an iPhone app that can give me a push notification of a new email? I want an app that can push my emails so they show up with the blue screen and with my notification tone.
I've tried Im+ but it's a chat also and I just want to push my emails.
I have Gmail, and I only want to push Gmail mails. 
Is there an app that can do just that?
Note: I want the blue icon that appears with a sound. (This is the exact same thing that happens to SMS and any other push notification. 

A: I think you might be confusing "push" and "SMS".
Push allows an email client to receive a message shortly after it has been sent, without waiting for a "fetch" window at n minutes.
If you just want all mail to show up as SMS (text message), you can use Gmail's built-in forwarding to achieve this.  It will forward the email as soon as it is received, and all SMS messages are delivered in a "push"-y manner, so this should do what you want.


*

*Open Gmail's "Mail settings"

*Select the "Forwarding and POP/IMAP" tab

*Click the button to "Add a fowarding address" and enter your phone's SMS text number (you can find a very comprehensive list of carrier email-to-SMS addresses here: http://www.emailtextmessages.com/)

*Verify that you own the address (they will send a verification code to the address, and you'll enter it in Gmail)

*Select to "Forward a copy of incoming mail to" that address you just entered

*Choose to "keep Gmail's copy in the inbox" if you would also like to be able to access your email the traditional way


You don't need to sign up for any third-party service, it's free, and you'll get your SMS messages immediately.
If you only want to forward a subset of your email, you can set that up in Gmail as a filter with a rule that forwards to your SMS email address.
Keep in mind the limitations of SMS, though.  The theoretical maximum length for an SMS is 255 concatenated 160 character messages, but most carriers will limit it to only a few messages -- so you might lose a lot of body text on longer emails.  But it will serve as good, fast notification that a new email has arrived.

A: You can get push notifications for Gmail by setting up Google sync.

A: You might want to take a look at Boxcar. It may not be exactly what you're looking for, but it might work.
Since you don't seem to like Boxcar, then perhaps you can simply check on Google about different alternatives. You may come up with something like "How To Send Email To Any Cell Phone (for Free)", which again, I don't know if it's going to be useful, because you don't mention much other than an existing 6€ alternative is too expensive.

A: The Google Search app can accept push notifications for your Gmail account. This way when you get a new email, it will send a push notification to your phone. 
Link (in US store): http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/google-search/id284815942?mt=8
