Q: Good way to keep iPad clean? I don't have a case or screen protector just yet for my iPad. What is a cost effective way to keep the screen clean and remove fingerprints?

A: Use a micro fiber cloth, like the ones used for cleaning glasses. Works for my touch screen devices all the time and needs no extra liquids or any other fancy gear.

A: I LOVE the iKlear products.  I spilled hot tea all over my MacBook Pro about 3 weeks after I bought it.  There were streaks of tea all over the screen and external case.  Luckily I was using a moshi keyboard cover which kept the liquid out of the keyboard area and probably saved my machine.  
After I completely tore it down to make sure there was no internal damage, I tried cleaning the screen with a microfiber cloth and a small amount of water.  It worked alright but I could still see the streaks and even fingerprints and keyboard marks when I held the screen up to a light.  So I spent some time researching the best external cleaning solution and iKlear seemed to be held in high regard. 
I got this kit from Amazon and it's truly amazing how well the solution and cloths work to clean the glass screen.  The tea streaks and every other little smudge and bit of goo came off like magic.  Literally takes about 15 seconds to clean the screen to a mirror finish.  It works very well on the aluminum case and keyboard as well.
I also use it on my iPod Touch and Motorola Droid.  Since the iPad is made out of the same stuff as the MBP and the iPod, I highly recommend this stuff.  You spent all that money on your iPad, i think it's worth an additional 20 bucks or so to get a good cleaning solution.

A: Use the Fingerspoo iPad wallpaper and you won't notice fingerprints anymore.


A: Options:


*

*Almost every Apple product except the iPad seems to come with a microfibre cloth, which I would recommend you use.

*If you have a case for your iPad, I have seen some people buy a regular microfibre cloth and keep it in the case. Maybe even cut it to about 1/4 the size for portability.

*The Apple store actually sells little microfibre cloths. They are pretty expensive though and are VERY small.

*Use your shirt.


A: I just use wet wipes. Gets chocolate off too

A: I have quite a few microfiber cloths around the house that I use for detailing cars, and I usually keep one of those out (that hasn't been used on the car) to wipe my iPhone and iPad. 

A: Yesterday I was using mine in a meeting, and a guy next to me said, "What do you use to wipe the screen down?"
I said, "My shirt." And I demonstrated my super-fancy wipe-the-screen-on-my-shirt maneuver I've worked out.
It's cheap, and it works. It's not exactly high class, but whatever.

A: In Belgium, we don’t have “real” Apple Stores yet, but we do have Switch, which is the official Apple reseller in our country.
Anyway, they sell this iClean product which can be used to clean your Mac. Guess what? It also works fine for iOS devices. It comes with a microfiber cloth included and it works really well for me.

A: Wash your hands!
Of course you would have to do it every 10 minutes or so... Or maybe just every 2 or 3 hours, if you work in a cold environment and don't sweat - different than hot Brasilian weather. =(
