Q: most Mac-compatible linux distribution I want to install Ubuntu on my iMac. But I don't want to use Unity. I want to use Gnome 3. I can install it over Ubuntu (as I do on my laptop) but I know that Fedora and OpenSuse use Gnome 3 natively.
Also, I use Ubuntu on my laptop because of drivers. It was a pain in my ass to install all working properly on Fedora and CentOS. So finally I've installed Ubuntu and it works fine for years.
So now I understand, that here is another bunch of drivers on my iMac and maybe here won't be any problems with Fedora.
Ok. Actually, the question is what is the best distribution (best, I mean most compatible with drivers wireless devices: Mouse, Keyboard etc) to use on iMac. As a second OS and as OS in my VirtualBox.

A: I look at this issue the other way (which may not help you at all as you mention video driver issues and you want full linux access to the GPU).
My take is "Which virtualization environment works best with the linux distributions I want to use?"
For me the answer is VMware Fusion, then VirtualBox and lastly Parallels. And I really haven't heard any significant issues with all three of these in the last several months.
The reason is that my time is so much more precious than whatever marginal increase in speed I would have gotten installing linux natively. If and when I need huge performance I deploy to co-located linux service where you can easily pick your optimal price / performance / service level.

A: you want to install (Ubuntu 14.04 GNOME)
follow the guide if you have any questions:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7osgsM20Nkc&index=3&list=PLIHlPrg8Od33icJstJBy_4MvPCdL5OkYl
afterwards just old the Option key at the  sound of the chime on a reboot and select the USB!
make sure to install GRUB to your Linux root partition /
also install REFIND so you can select the second os at boot.
IF YOU HAVE A DRIVER ISSUE (booting to blank screen) install in (nomodeset)
once installed you might have to type (nomodeset)) into your grub menu but pressing e and adding nomodeset after quietsplash
once that is done you should be able to install drivers no problem.
you might have to blacklist some from loading at boot but I would segest reasercing installing linux on your specific Apple as your did not give us any information on that.
Also Ubuntu works with wireless devices but you have to write a script to pair them at boot automatically.
