Q: Make Solid-state scrolling trackpad behave like Multi-Touch trackpad I am using an early 2009 MacBook.
Is there any way or any APP that can make Solid-state scrolling trackpad on my MacBook behave like Multi-Touch trackpad
Solid-state scrolling trackpad supports two-finger scrolling, tap, double-tap, and drag capabilities, while Multi-Touch trackpad supports inertial scrolling, pinch, rotate, swipe, three-finger swipe, four-finger swipe, tap, double-tap, and drag capabilities.
Can gestures from Multi-Touch trackpad, be available to Solid-state scrolling trackpad?

A: You could try with some software like Better Touch Tool, but that's not guarantied it will work, since it's more of a hardware limitation.
Another solution would be to buy a Magic Trackpad.

A: Sadly, there is no way and no app to add this functionality. 
The hardware simply wasn't designed to track two (or more) independent touches. You get two finger (wide contact point) scroll but that's it.
You would need to add more hardware like a video camera to see three fingers and analyze the movement optically (or add expensive circuitry and somehow hook into a free port like bluetooth, USB and add a kernel extension to get that added input to the Human Interface system.) It's more practical to find a buyer that wants your mac and put that money towards a mac with true multitouch hardware than to add multitouch capability after the fact.

A: I recommend reading this article from TUAW. It basically says that the internal chipset on the new multi-touch trackpads is different to older trackpads and that is why out-of-the-box, Mac OS X Snow Leopard will not be able to add the gestures to your trackpad. 
Having said that, the same article points you to this hack in MacRumors in case you feel a little adventurous and want to try and hack your OS to change how it works with your older trackpad. I cannot vouch for this method as my Mac already has a multi-touch trackpad so I have not used this hack. I also do not know of anybody who has used it. I am only pointing you in that direction in hopes that it is what you're looking for. 
If there's a hack, there might just be a way. :) Good luck! 

A: I've experimented with a lot of hacks and apps for the trackpads to simulate the Magic Trackpad's gestures, but still avoid adding another accessory to carry around. Personally, I've found JiTouch to be wonderful in this respect: http://www.jitouch.com/
Hope this helps!
