Q: Can iPhone battery apps actually prolong battery life? I've seen a few apps that claim they do some kind of conditioning/deep charge/other jargon to extend the life of an iPhone battery. Is this just hokum or do I really need one of these apps to maximize the life of my battery?

A: Of course a jail free app could prolong battery life, by tweaking into the system, just like Apple could (and like some android apps already do, since android has almost no management restrictions for developers). Couple things that could be done, for instance: killing apps that are known to consume batter life, or maybe turning off the screen when needed in an intelligent way.
But, as you may picture now, it's so much work that I doubt any good app will come along and I don't really know of any that do. Also, from a developer point of view, it'd be way too much time spent researching, testing and doing this for too little result, because this is already one of Apple's primary worries.
Here are few better things to do for prolonging battery life, from Apple's own list:


*

*Turn off push notifications / Fetch new data less frequently / Turn off push mail 

*Turn off Wi-Fi / Turn off Bluetooth

*Use Airplane Mode in low- or no-coverage areas

*Adjust brightness

*Turn off EQ

*Use iPhone Regularly (go through at least one charge cycle per month)


As for Apple Store apps, no way in hell. The app itself won't improve battery at all. At least not "automagically". It could work only as an insturctive reminder, at most.

A: Yes - if it's the thing that gets you to change your behavior. Whether you call it snake oil, a placebo or social engineering, changing your perception or spurring you to action is powerful and can shape your world.
No - without you doing something different, using more energy to "monitor" the battery obviously leaves less energy for the rest of the things you normally have running.

A: From what I understand, iPhone apps don't have the power to regulate the power consumption of other apps and iOS system processes. These apps sound like snake oil to me.

A: Apple themselves recommend a deep cycle every month:

Be sure to go through at least one
  charge cycle per month (charging the
  battery to 100% and then completely
  running it down).

If the app reminds you to do this every 30 days, then yes, it will improve your battery life. Unfortunately, I've seen some apps that tell you to go down to 20% and then open the app while it is charging. That isn't letting it "completely run down", and so, it would do nothing for your phone.
Besides reminding you of doing a deep cycle every 30 days, I don't see how any app could improve your battery life. If anything, it would ruin your battery life by staying running in the background.
