Q: How can I get a me.com e-mail address? Was this a service only offered with Apple's Mobile Me? Is there anyway I can still get an e-mail address ending in @me.com?

A: It's basically not possible to make a new MobileMe account while the transition to iCloud is happening. There are some loopholes (like adding a new account under an existing Family account) - but most will have to wait until iCloud is released. The official word on that is a vague - in the fall of 2011.
From the Apple preview page covering Contacts, Calendar and Mail as part of iCloud:

Mail that delivers. Free.
When you set up iCloud, you get a free me.com
email account. iCloud automatically
pushes new email messages to all your
devices, so your inbox is up to date
everywhere you check it. And iCloud
keeps all your folders in sync, no
matter which device you’re using.

That was posted June 6, 2011, and I think that's pretty definitive. Free me.com accounts for all. It's unclear if you can get a new one today, but when iCloud opens to the public, you'll be able to sign up for one.
The sign-up page for MobileMe was disabled when iCould was announced at WWDC. People with unredeemed paid memberships can request a refund as they can no longer create a new account. Also, the free trials are suspended - presumably until iCloud opens this fall. The MobileMe transition FAQ documents this in detail and should be updated if things change before iCloud details are released.
The only way to get an account is if you already have a Family Pack with unallocated sub accounts. It is not clear if and how that sub account will transition to iCloud, but that may be an option for some to establish MobileMe email after June 6, 2011 and before iCloud opens for business.

A: Definitive answer on this is now at Apple's KB as of 15 Jan 2015
Extract:

  
*
  
*If you created an iCloud account on or after September 19, 2012, your email address ends with @icloud.com. Learn more about @icloud.com mail addresses.
  
*If you created an iCloud account before September 19, 2012, or moved to iCloud with an active MobileMe account before August 1, 2012, you have both @me.com and @icloud.com email addresses.
  
*If you had a working @mac.com email address as of July 9, 2008, kept your MobileMe account active, and moved to iCloud before August 1, 2012, you can use @icloud.com, @me.com, and @mac.com email addresses with your iCloud account.
  
  
  In each case, you can sign in to iCloud with either your @icloud.com email address or the Apple ID that you use with your iCloud account.
If you created one or more email aliases for your account, be aware of the following:  
  
  
*
  
*You can change or delete an email alias, but if you delete an @mac.com or @me.com email alias, you can't add it back to your iCloud account.
  
*You can't sign in to iCloud.com with an email alias. Sign in with your @icloud.com email address or the Apple ID that you use with your iCloud account.
  


A: You can actually just go into the "Mail, Contacts & Calendars" section of your system preferences on your Mac.  Click the add account option on the left and then click the iCloud option on the right, it will give you the option to generate a new apple ID account with an option to make it a free @me.com account.

A: Steve Jobs mentions in WWDC 2011, that "We'll give you a me.com email address," when speaking about iCloud.  So - if your question was in reference to whether the @me.com addresses will disappear with the coming of the iCloud service, no, I don't think so.

A: From this Apple Support page:

Can I create a new MobileMe account?
  You can no longer create a new 60-day trial account or start a new subscription using a code contained in a MobileMe box. However, if you have a Family Pack subscription, you can still create new family member accounts. 

Edit: I hadn't targeted the actual question very well: "How can I get a me.com e-mail address?".
Turns out, you only need to create an Apple ID using your an existing email address which you will need to verify; then using iOS 5, OS 10.7, or Windows Vista or later, and create an iCloud account which will include your choice of an available @me.com address.

A: On a Mac running Lion or higher, click System Preferences, select iCloud.
If you have selected another account, logout.
Click on Create an Apple Id ... rest is self-explanatory and go through the steps.

A: Ah hah! So I found a tricky way to get my me.com address. I downloaded the iOS 5 developer preview onto my iPad 2. The new iOS gives you the option to create a me.com e-mail address.

A: I have been looking for a way to get @me email id and finally after a lot of search found a way here

go into the iCloud settings on your Mac and check Mail, you will be
  prompted to create a @me.com address.

I'm not sure whether there is any other way to create @me address from me.com or icloud.com but the above worked for me!

A: I don't recall seeing it mentioned during the process of signing up for iCloud but @me.com addresses/aliases are automatically created alongside your @iCloud.com email address.
For instance, if John Doe created an iCloud account today and subsequently obtained his John.Doe@iCloud.com email address he could also receive email sent to John.Doe@me.com without doing any extra work on his end.
tl;dr - If you already have an @iCloud.com email address you can automatically receive email sent to the same address ending in @me.com.
