Q: Subtitle editor for OSX? I have a video in mp4 (MPEG-4) and I would like to add subtitles to it. What tool or application would you recommend to help me write and sync the subtitles with the video?

A: Never tried this, but is is cross-platform: http://www.aegisub.org/
After i read your comments - IMHO you will need:


*

*Make .srt subtitles in any tools what you can manage to work (timing)

*Optionally repair .srt files in any texteditor - skip this if not needed

*Test the .srt subtitles with VLC or Quicktime/Perian

*If everything is OK - embed subtitles into video with http://code.google.com/p/subler/

A: An open-source, cross-platform solution is Jubler
I didn't try it, but it has a good amount of users on iusethis.

A: While I've never used this to create raw subtitles, here's the couple of programs I've tried for a similar purpose: 


*

*Subs Factory for creating the subtitles ($7.99). I've actually used it to editing subtitles, but well.

*Subler for embedding them into the mp4. I've used this once or twice about a year ago, and it did what I needed. And it's always good to see such a nice project is still active!

A: Sublime HD is great, but its price is just crazy - 230€

A: Not mentioned yet is Annotation Edit.
Probably not suitable at consumer level (€245), but at prosumer or professional level it is a good option. I've worked with it in a movie producing company and it delivered very well.
It has FinalCut integration (import/export) and works with tons of formats.
From the site:

zeitAnker Annotation Edit gives you a sophisticated interface to attribute and subtitle video or audio in very short time. Therefore we developed techniques hardly found elsewhere and took the chance to build a clean and extensible product from scratch.


A: A little bit of digging around turned up Submerge from bitfield. I have not used it, but it looks pretty decent and is listed on Apples's Downloads site. bitfield also has an app named iSubtitle in the Mac App Store which appears to do the same thing.
iSubtitle is $19.99 in the Mac App Store, while Submerge is only $9 from bitfield's web site.

A: Subtitle Edit Pro
I haven't tried it myself, but there is this piece of software: Subtitle Edit Pro.


