Q: How do I delete a file from my desktop using keyboard I have tons of file on my desktop. I am using latest macbook pro.
After selecting the file using mouse I hit delete and then "command and delete" and none of them work.
So finally I hit ctrl + mouse click and then I chose "Move to trash".
Is there a way to delete the file using only keyboard?

A: command+delete works just fine. Highlight the file (single click or use your keyboard to select it), then hold command and without releasing it, push delete. This moves the file or folder to the trash.
Note that delete is in the same place as Backspace on a Windows keyboard.

A: The full procedure to delete a file from the desktop, without the mouse, that should work almost anywhere in OS X, includes the following.  
Command-Tab to switch applications until the Finder is the active application.
If any Finder windows are currently open, press Command-Shift-D to open a new window containing the Desktop folder, or Option-Command-W to close all active Finder windows and make the Finder's desktop active;
To highlight the icon, type the first few letters of the icon's name, or press the arrow keys until it is selected (highlighted);
Command-Delete to send the icon to the trash;
Optionally, Command-Shift-Delete to empty the trash.
Learning the keyboard shortcuts takes time, but many of the steps in the Finder can become natural, almost "automatic" with enough practice.
(This answer gives the key names in U.S. English.  The Command key is also labeled ⌘; The Option key is also labeled ⌥; The Shift key is also labeled ⇧; and as mentioned by Styfle, the "delete" key is called "Backspace" on other operating systems.)

A: I had an issue with command+delete not working to delete things on the desktop that looked like apps I had installed earlier. Turns out they weren't files, but instead mounted DMG files that needed to be ejected with ⌘+E.

A: Just in case if someone uses external Microsoft Sculpt Ergo keyboard + Macbook Pro 2016. I'm able to move file to Trash with 'Win'+'backspace' keystroke. 

A: highlight, then SHIFT + DELETE; click ok

A: TLDR: Use CTRL + d on Windows.
If you find yourself using Apple hardware in a Windows environment (like running Bootcamp on a MacBook Pro or just using an Apple keyboard in Windows), you may notice that delete is mapped to the Windows Backspace key which is never involved in deleting files.
But you can still send files to the recycle bin with CTRL + d.
