Q: How to install Windows 7 on Mac mini server? Previously I installed Windows 7 on a Macbook Air without problems using Boot Camp Assistant and the excellent directions here.
Now I am trying to install Windows 7 on a Mac mini server and I encounter error with every approach I take. I already have a bootable USB disk with Windows 7 installer.
First I tried to install Windows 7 directly booting the installer. Installer refused to continue displaying an error mentioning something about GPT drive.
Second I tried to install using Boot Camp, but it does not exist on Mac mini servers!
So I copied the Boot Camp Assistant app from Macbook Air, and selected the option "Download the Windows Support software for this mac". It was not able to find and download anything.
I thought I could handle the driver issues later, I used Boot Camp Assistant to make the 500 GB harddisk Windows installable. Then I booted into the installer, selected BOOTCAMP partition and formatted it. Installer did not continue displaying 0x80300024        error.
I run out of ideas and am rather frustrated. Are there any simple instructions on how to install Windows 7 on Mac mini server? Or how can I solve my problem and install?

A: Boot Camp requires a $29 Snow Leopard OS X DVD (not the server DVD) and an external drive. The MacBook Air SuperDrive works excellently with no driver hassle.
Sorry I don't have a list of drivers and steps to make up for the work done on the OS X since I'm a wimp and will pay good money to save an hour or two my time. Apple only bundles the Windows Drivers for it's hardware with the client version of OS X (AFAIK)
I hope if someone else has done the hard work, they post their experience. The official Apple solution is simple and works well.

A: I was able to figure it out.  First I tried installing Windows 7 via USB thumb drive however that didn't work. So I purchased an Apple USB SuperDrive and used my Window 7 Home Premium DVD and Boot Camp Assistant to accomplish the task.

A: finally I did it. all I did I run win7 installation by using DVD player not by USB. All you need is a Boot Camp, Apple's DVD player and Win7 DVD.
I did it after 6 months of trying by googling.
