Q: How are the sound effects in Final Cut Pro licensed? What kind of license do final cut pro sound effects have?
Can I put them into nonmovies?
For example, can I use them in a Flash game?
Hypothetical:
If I'm distributing my own video editor, can I include these sound effects?

A: There is language saying you can't resell the sounds, but you are granted license to use them royalty free for some very specific uses and not at all in broad general terms. 
I am not a lawyer
See the section below from the license for the last version / now discontinued Final Cut Studio

c) Soundtrack Pro. You may use the Apple and third party audio file
  content (including, but not limited to, the built-in sound files,
  samples and impulse responses) (collectively the “Audio Content”),
  contained in or otherwise included with the Apple Software, on a
  royalty-free basis, to create your own original soundtracks for your
  film, video and audio projects. You may broadcast and/or distribute
  your own soundtracks that were created using the Audio Content,
  however, individual audio files may not be commercially or otherwise
  distributed on a standalone basis, nor may they be repackaged in whole
  or in part as audio samples, sound files or music beds.

Pretty much anything license related from Apple gets placed here fairly quickly after launch (FCP X cough, cough)
A lawyer would be needed to tell you if embedding them in a flash game would fall under "film, video and audio projects". One would hope if your flash game embedded a movie sequence or soundtrack as part of the narrative,  everyone here might call that as "in bounds" or "in the spirit".
Just taking the whole sounds (or even samples of those sounds in isolation and not mixed down) and using it for actions or events in a flash game seems to be more like repackaging as audio samples which seems clearly "out of bounds".
I would purchase a set of sounds that are expressly marketed as for use in software rather than something intended for original soundtracks unless my lawyer gave me the explicit go-ahead.

A: 
If I'm distributing my own video editor, can I include these sound
  effects?

Be very, very careful about this and consult a lawyer and the license itself before moving any further than just hypothetical. Typically "rights free" refers to only components in a collection, not the collection itself.
The sound effects may be rights-free, but only for use in your own projects like a Flash game or movie. The combination of sound effects in Apple's software package, however, isn't going to be rights-free and wholesale redistribution of those sound effects, of even a subset, will probably be a violation of Apple's copyright, especially when including them in a competing product. Apple does not take copyright infringement lightly.

A: All Final Cut sound effects are royalty free, you can use them however you wish. (as long as you legally obtained FCP)
