Q: How to make iPhone camera silent? On my iPhone, the camera shutter sound follows the ring/silent switch. However, I'd like the camera to be always silent, regardless of whether incoming calls & messages make a sound. Is there any way to configure it that way?
(Non-jailbroken iPhone 4 with latest iOS.)

A: It may not be the best solution, but I use an old headphone jack.  Essentially, I cut the end of the cord up to the point where the jack is.  I use the jack as a "sound" blocker.  Does wonders if you don't mind a little jack sticking out at the bottom lol

A: A simple solution is to use the mute switch on the side of the phone.  The camera shutter sound is controlled by the ringer volume, since the mute switch mutes the ringer the shutter sound is also mute.  However, you are asking an optional permanent solution.  So far there is none.  The application doesn't have any additional options within the app or within System Preferences.
Digging into the app store there is a simple camera application called Secret Camera - Taking Photo Secretly for $1.99. Apple Store Link It looks like it functions like the normal Camera application, but reading its description it doesn't explicitly mention a shutter mute option.  I assume this is an implied feature due to the app's name.

A: Don't think there's an option to disable the camera shutter sound, but here is a guide on how to disable the sound.

A: Initially, silencing the camera was a simple flick of the physical mute switch, however many governments now regulate this and the os will bypass many efforts to silence the capture noise. 


*

*iPhone makes shutter sound when taking photos despite being on mute
This may or may not work long term since video capture is typically silent and extracting high quality stills is easy. Also, Live Photo feature further blurs the line between a photo and a video that pre-records the scene before you trigger a “photo” from the “camera”. 

A: just flip the the phone's ring/silent switch to silent.
