Q: App for editing files in my Dropbox? My current setup is Dropbox with a directory called /Docs, in which I have my emacs .org outline files.
If you don't know about Emacs and org-mode, these files are plain text, just formatted with ** and so on for headings, however the extension is .org
I have tried Elements, however it would not let me view notes with the extension of .org
So essentially, I want to sync up notes between org-mode and an app on my iPhone 4, without using MobileOrg (which doesn't really sync as such).

A: You can use PlainText 2, it syncs with Dropbox (you can choose which folder to sync) and it let you choose which file extensions you want to sync.

A: Nebulous Lite (there's also a non-ad-supported version) is a text editor for any type of file in Dropbox.  I frequently use it to edit plain text files.  I just tested it to sync and edit text files with a .org extension and it worked.  

A: The best comparison of text editors for iOS is the one started by Brett Terpstra found here :- 
http://brettterpstra.com/ios-text-editors/
Unfortunately org-mode support is not one of the fields but the only one I've ever heard of is MobileOrg that you've mentioned.
You might find this blog post on using a combination of other software to implement an org-mode workflow useful.
http://www.osomac.com/2013/10/07/ios-workflows-org-mode/
His idea of using Drafts and Pythonista to do org-mode work is a good one. 
My recommendation to you would be to have a good look at Editorial as it is a good editor with a Python interpreter and automation system behind it. You could probably hack together some good org-mode stuff in that. It is written by the same person that wrote Pythonista mentioned in the blog post above. 
Personally I find myself using Drafts, Byword and Editorial for different purposes and all three have no problem with Dropbox.

A: Here's a nice iPhone Text Editors comparison by the great Michael Tsai (author of SpamSieve among others).
Comparing iPhone Text Editors, v4. I can't post any conclusion he makes here, because he doesn't make much, other than that he's still sticking with Notesy.

A: There is a very comprehensive review of IOS text editors with DropBox support here:
http://appadvice.com/appguides/show/dropbox-text-editors
Reviews are quite detailed and describe the pros, cons and costs.
