Q: Decent sweat-resistant headphones with mic (ie, iPhone compatible) Similar to this question already posed: Decent headphones with a Mic for Android and iPhone, I'm looking for a pair of decent sweat resistant headphones that are good for working out.
Originally I used the default headphones that came with my iPhone, but as they got wet with sweat, one or the other earbud would stop functioning temporarily... eventually after many workouts, the 'phones just died (I'm assuming it's the sweat, since I have another set of the same headphones from a similar period that work fine)
I'm currently using these but the problem is they are exhibiting the same problem as my original earbuds and I'm questioning whether they'll eventually die.
So I'm looking for:


*

*A stereo headset with microphone so I can answer calls and do voice commands

*Ones that are made to be sweat resistant and durable

*(Preferably) bluetooth so I can put my phone in my pannier or on the treadmill shelf.


Anyone with suggestions?

A: I use the default Blackberry wired headset which I get on Amazon.  
I wear them only when I ride my bike to talk on the phone (call family on the 2 hour bike ride to work, its a good time to chat on the way home) or listen to podcasts.
While they may not be sweat resistant, they are cheap.  I buy them on Amazon for $2.85 a pair and the noise cancelling seems to be pretty good, considering I often talk while riding a bike in traffic and wind.
I have had one mike die due to sweat, but otherwise, they seem to last reasonably well.  And I sweat copiously, alas.
I love the single click to mute, hold to drop the call, and hold to activate voice dialing on my Blackberry.   Now to figure out how to get the BB voice dialer to call via Google Voice so I can call my parents in Canada without long distance charges from the US.

A: I have been using Motorola MOTOROKR S9 BT Stereo Headphones very successfully (outdoors, gym) for past 1.5 yrs. All 3 of your points fit to the T. They are a bit expensive but the experience & usability is worth it. The link I have posted is the HD (High Def) version, you may not need that. You may also want to check deals on Amazon, they almost always have better price.
PS: See if you can try it on first. It fits nicely on my frame but I've heard they're not always as comfortable on others.

A: Could you maybe get swimmers headphones (completely water resistant) and a headphone - microphone adapter. Would cost more than the disposable blackberry approach but be better for the environment.

A: When I was in the Apple shop Liverpool the other day I noticed some Sennheiser/Adidas ones, the CX680i, which look like they would fit your requirements perfectly.
