Q: How do you pronounce the clover-like key (⌘)? How do you pronounce the clover-like key ⌘ ?

A: As above, "Command" is the usual name. For some context, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command_key

A: I usually say "command", but I've also heard it pronounced doily

A: It was originally known as the "Places of Interest" symbol used in Northern Europe on maps and such.
Here's some history on it:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_John%27s_Arms
But when I tell people to press it I say "command".

A: This is usually called the "command" key. Others just call it the "apple" key...

A: It's called the Command key, abbreviated as Cmd.
Common nicknames are "clover" or "butterfly".
The symbol is based on one used on signs in Swedish campgrounds to note a place of interest; Susan Kare of the original Mac team located it in a international symbol dictionary while looking for something to replace the Apple logo, which Steve Jobs felt was being overused. (The whole story is on Folklore.org.)
On the Apple II, the keyboard featured open-Apple (an outline) and closed-Apple (filled in) keys beside the space bar. On early Macs, the same key had both the Command symbol and an Apple logo printed on it, and so some people carried over the terminology and continued to call it the Apple key.
On newer Macs, the Apple logo has been removed, and the key features only the command symbol and the text "command".

A: In Sweden you often hear runa (rune, which is somewhat related to the historic origin for the use on Swedish road signs) or kringla (pretzel, based on the shape) for this symbol when used in Mac context.

A: When I worked at Apple (1992-1997), quite a large proportion of the engineers called it "the propeller key". The suits almost always called it "the command key", and viewed the engineer's nomenclature as being disrespectful or merely irreverent.

A: It used to be called "Splat", but sadly that has fallen out of use.

A: I've been a Mac user since 1988, and I've always called it (and heard it referred to as) "butterfly."

A: I call it the "church" key

A: I call it "mela", which just means "apple" in italian.

A: Actually the use of the Butterfly Key was in retaliation of IBM, and of the slavery early programers associated with Big Blue(IBM) as an oligarchic company bent on suppressing of new ideas and of the casual freedoms that the Bay Area was known for so they did away with the oppressive "Command Key" and thus gave it a splat, butterfly or whatever you want to call it. 
The idea was to be liberated and not controlled. Which is funny since Apple literally controlled every aspect of their early computer architecture and squashed any freedom to developers to give the Mac OS the power or the programs it needed. 
But the Butterfly is a statement, not a reality. 
