Q: What can cause the volume keys to not work but show the prohibitory sign instead of changing volume? When i try to reduce my mac book volume it suddenly shows that this isn't possible, even the icon in the menu bar is (grey inactive)
This happens sometimes since i installed lion os


A: The first thing to check is the selected output device in System Preferences. To do that, open System Preferences and click on "Sound". 

Next, go through each of the tabs to verify that you don't see any obvious settings. I've seen this before on Snow Leopard, and although I'm now on Lion, I don't think this changed much.

I don't remember what the setting were, but it was fairly obvious to me what to change.

A: Check inside the headphone jack. Is a red light showing? If so, the MacBook might be trying to output optical audio. Make sure nothing is stuck in there - lint, dust, etc. Plugging in and then removing headphones may also help. If the red light stays, best to bring it in for service.

A: I have experienced this issue starting with my new install of Lion. I haven't been able to find the cause of the issue but I do have a quick way to reset the audio system and get back volume control. 
Open Activity Monitor (Its in Applications/Utilities)
Make sure it is set to All Processes, look for coreaudiod, click "Quit Process" then "Quit". Wait a few seconds and you should have volume control back.
If your a terminal buff a quick sudo killall coreaudiod should whip it into shape. 

A: As you suggested, I cHecked inside the headphone jack and found a red light showing.   Plugging in and then removing headphones solved the problem.  Thank you for the advice.

A: When I had to use Force Quit to close a stuck Premier Elements 9, it somehow reset the audio. Go to System Preferences → Sound → Output and re-choose Internal Speakers to get the sound going again, as well as the buttons on the keyboard to control the speakers.

A: I personally tried most of the listed above. What I ended up doing before I did anything too crazy (i'm not super techy) is I just put in my earbuds again and took them out. I didn't have a read light going near the headphone jack, but it did the job. Now I have control again! I hope that helps you, my friends!
