Q: External monitor over the air with Macbook I have purchased a second-hand MacBook (13 inch, white) which is quite cool. Now i want to connect it to my external monitor and i have got a Mini-DVI-to-DVI cable from a friend of mine:
 
However, my monitor's DVI input is damaged and i must use a VGA-cable with a DVI-to-VGA adapter on one end:

Furthermore, i can not connect this DVI-adapter to the Mini-DVI-to-DVI cable because it has somehow 4 pins more around the "bar" (hope you can see what i mean)... this is the reason why i am searching for a method to connect my Samsung 940 BW as an external monitor - prefferable via network. Is there any Tool/Program that will work with my OS X 10.7 on my MacBook and Windows 7 Ultimate on my PC and extend the "viewport" from the Mac to the monitor? Air Display does not support Mac to Windows and MaxiVista is only for Windows!

A: Those extra four pins on your DVI to VGA adapter actually carry the VGA signal; the adapter doesn't actually do any adapting. (The terminology is: DVI-D is digital-only like your mini-DVI to DVI adapter, while DVI-I carries both DVI and VGA, like your cable.)
The hardware solution is to get a mini-DVI to VGA adapter (from Apple or elsewhere).

A: RE: ".. Is there any Tool/Program that will work with my OS X 10.7 on my MacBook and Windows 7 Ultimate on my PC and extend the "viewport" from the Mac to the monitor? Air Display does not support Mac to Windows and MaxiVista is only for Windows!"
Correct me if I am wrong, But from the way you are wording this, I believe what you are trying to do is use one keyboard and mouse (plugged into either a Mac or a Windows PC) across multiple computer displays (so that you can move your mouse off the edge of your monitor running on Windows 7, and then see your mouse cursor pop up at the other edge of your monitor plugged in to your Mac?
If so, this sourceforge project should do the trick : Synergy
(Synergy has already had updates to work with Lion)

A: The solution was ScreenRecycler which is working as expected. It creates a virtual desktop which can be accessed via VNC on my Windows machine and i can work with that, althoug i have some problems connecting if i am not connected to the same WLAN but i will ask another question for that!
