Q: What are the best disk cloning tools? Money is no object. I want a bit for bit perfect copy of a hard drive/partition which is bootable (is either possible) to be used in a backup regimen.
I have heard of some tools but your recommendations with clear outlines of the features that make it useful for you as a backup solution would be most appreciated.

A: Carbon Copy Cloner (CCC) hands down. Even Apple enterprise recommends it, and they use it for their live servers. Although SuperDuper! is fine for standard Mac OS, it is not recommended by the general population for the Server OS.
The latest CCC adds great features too. Use the $30 you would spend on SuperDuper! And donate it to CCC. It's what we use in the field.

A: Carbon Copy Cloner should do the job.
CCC (Carbon Copy Cloner) creates a bootable backup, and preserves all your files, and in the right hierarchy. You can also have incremental backups (it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup). You can schedule CCC to backup regularly. CCC also has the ability to backup over a network. I also like the Growl notifications.

SuperDuper! is another handy little application. We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out. It has the ability to do incremental backups, so you won't be backing up the whole hard drive; just the data that's changed. Unlike CCC, it costs $27.95.

Another option would be rsync or cp. Both will have the option to make a perfect backup, invisible files included. Rsync can also backup incrementally, which means it will only backup what has changed. With rsync and cp, you can also schedule it to backup with launchd or cron.

A: Clonezilla is awesome.
Free, boots from cd / usb, works with win / mac / linux.
Great tool to have.

A: 
… bit for bit perfect copy … 

Disk Utility
If you want bit-for-bit, use the Restore features in Disk Utility. 
If Lion Recovery is available, you could use the Disk Utility in Mac OS X Utilities. 
Whilst you can use Disk Utility in a backup regime, I would not use it every day for that purpose. 
Is it more important for the backup to be bootable, or bit-for-bit perfect?

A: Shirt Pocket's SuperDuper is a nice app, but it is pricey.
$28, free trial available.
One of its good features: It allows you to perform an incremental backup that only updates what's changed.

A: We use Clonezilla at work. It creates exact clones of our disks and/or partitions and dumps them on an FTP server.
This is also nice because we get a centralised repository of disk/partition images which we can dish out to any of our boxes pretty speedily.

A: I like CCC but SuperDuper works great as well. SuperDuper costs almost $30, but it's worth it for the terrific effort the developer puts into making sure it's compatible with the current version of OS X. 
The thing I like most about Carbon Copy Cloner is that it's free (donations encouraged) and it has a very easy to use scheduler that will remind you to turn on drives it needs to do the job, and when you turn them on, it does it without further action on your part. Either one works great for me.
