Q: Why does the Network icon in the Finder sidebar in Lion have no function on my Mac? Since installing Lion on my Late 2007 MacBook Pro, which cannot support AirDrop, an icon called "Network" has appeared under Favorites in my Finder sidebar. This icon seems to have no function. Clicking on it only reveals the error message

"Network" can't be opened because the original item can't be found.

There is also no option to disable its appearance in Finder Preferences.
The Network icon seems to disappear on occasion, only to reappear later.
I can find no documentation of this mysterious icon, and no reference to its existence anywhere.
Can anyone suggest what this icon is and why it is being displayed?

Addendum: Note that there are indeed other network computers visible on my LAN in the finder, whereas the little gray Network icon in the Sidebar does not display any of them.

Note that there is no item named "Network" for me to remove in my Finder preferences:


A: ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.sidebarlists.plist
In Terminal, run the following command. You should find the word Network mentioned at least once in your .plist preference file: 
defaults read com.apple.sidebarlists | grep Network
Applicability
As I can't drag Network to my Finder sidebar — and as sidebar takes a different approach to showing shared items — I guess that: 


*

*in Lion, Network is no longer applicable in the FAVORITES part of the sidebar

*maybe for you, Network was amongst sidebar favourites in a previous version of the operating system. 


Removing unwanted items from the property list
Probably easiest with Xcode. 
If you don't have Xcode, then use TextWrangler or anything that's capable of editing this type of property list. 
Identifying items in the .plist
Xcode views of the property list:


A TextWrangler view:

To view Network, with or without the sidebar
⇧⌘K
In the sidebar


*

*show SHARED

*click All…

If the option 'All…' does not appear
First try removing, from the property list, unwanted or redundant items relating to Network. 
A guess: it may be necessary to quit Finder, or log out, before some types of change become effective. 
If following removals and a log out you find that SHARED is still without All…, consider asking a separate question.

A: I know this is an old thread and I am unsure if you've solved this problem or not, but I thought I'd still post as it could potentially help others that come across this problem. I noticed recently that I, too, had this 'Network' appear on my Finder sidebar. When I clicked it, it did nothing at all and I could not remove it by right clicking. Pretty much I was in the same situation. As a solution to rid of it, I simply held [option]+[command] and dragged it on to the desktop, then poof, problem solved.
Ida

A: This icon is a gateway to all the networked storage devices, computers, and printers on your local network IF there are any. This can also be access from the GO menu of the finder, or using the shortcut ⌘⇧K. It might not have any function if no such devices are present. If the sidebar item is annoying you, you can simply remove it by right clicking it.

A: From the root of your computer there is an item 'Network'. I assume this is a favorite to that. I've just been playing around and can't see it, but I so have various networked devices in Shared, and in Devices, so no idea what it's for. Remove it if it bothers you.
For me all the items in Network from my computer root appear on the sidebar in Shared.
When it is present does it match a time a device on your network is active or sharing something? Eg. someone using iTunes with sharing on. This might be linked to Bonjour.
To remove:
From Finder: File -> Preferences -> Sidebar. From there you can remove it if it has no use.

A: For me, this shortcut was something that was brought over from Leopard/Snow Leopard days. My account has always been migrated, and I had the very same question as yours. I recently bought a new MacBook Air with Lion preinstalled, and I set this up as a new secondary account and there is no Network shortcut visible (even when I have other Macs on the same network as per your addendum). 
