Q: MBP Keys 'stick' when it gets hot Short Question
Why do the keys 'stiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiick' when my MBP gets hot?  More importantly, how can I fix it?
Background
It is not any one key that sticks, I have had darn near every key stick on me so far.  So with this in mind, I do not believe it is a problem with any one key.  Also, the only time it does this is when the laptop gets hot (running Win 7 + charging = 3rd degree burns).  I just starting using MacFan and so far I like it quite a bit; it is very similar to SMC Fan control for OS X.
In addition to the keys sticking at times, the track pad becomes much less sensitive and gestures do not work.  I wish I could say that I only had these issues when I was on Windows 7, but I have had some of these same issues on the Mac side.
System Info
Hardware:
MBP Early 2008
RAM Upgraded to 4g
HDD Upgraded to 500g 7200 rpm  
OS:
OS X 10.6.8
Windows 7 Pro (bootcamp & parallels 6)
EDIT
1) The keys do not physically stick down.  They pop back up immediately.
2) On the left side of the display, roughly 1" on the bottom and tappers away to 1/4" on top, is washed out as well.  It seems to get less severe when I turn the back-light all the way up, but I'm fairly sure that's not best thing to do for for it.  Up until now I thought the keyboard/track pad issues were separate from the display, but based on macaco's answer it makes me wonder: Could these issues be related?  
UPDATE
I was able to secure a new laptop for work and have somewhat retired the worn-out MBP.  Thanks for all your help!

A: I suspect that this is the topcase module malfunctioning.
However, a good troubleshooting step would be to connect a USB keyboard & mouse and see if the issue continues with those external devices once the problem manifests.
This will allow you to ascertain if the topcase is at fault and/or if the issue is software based (although it seems to be hardware as you're seeing similar/related issues in OSX and Windows).
Past that I would take the machine to an Apple store or AASP where they can test the machine with a known good topcase/keyboard module to fully confirm that the topcase needs replacing (or anything else if the problem is deeper (read:logic board)). If that's what needs replacing then it's a relatively cheap repair.
