Q: iTunes not playing all songs in a playlist I'm sure this has been asked before, but I can't seem to search for the right terms. I have a playlist in iTunes that has over 200 songs in it, yet when on Shuffle, iTunes plays the same 15-20 songs over and over. I created the playlist over a year ago and listen at work almost every day, and there are dozens of songs that have never been played unless I turn off shuffle and manually select them to play.
I know Shuffle is random, and that true mathematical randomness means it's just as likely that you'd hear the same song 10 times in a row as that you'd hear 10 different songs, but isn't there some way to force iTunes to play all the songs in a playlist when it's on Shuffle?
I'm currently running iTunes 10.4 on a Mac (Snow Leopard), but this is true on other versions and operating systems as well.

A: iTunes defines the random order of the tracks when you first specify set "Shuffle".  (This is so that the skip forward / backward buttons work in a reasonable manner.)  If you never turn Shuffle on or off, that order is never changed.  Just disable and then re-enable Shuffle to get a new random order of tracks. 
For more detail, see Why isn't iTunes shuffle random?.  

A: The only success I've had replicating this behavior is when I've unchecked some of the songs in a standard playlist. When I do this and play with shuffle turned on only the checked songs play. Perhaps this is your issue.
If you don't see any checkboxes on the left go to Preferences | General and check the box that says Show list checkboxes.

A: Hey I have faced the same problem, and I did not get the correct answer. But after some hit n trail I got the solution:
Right Click on playlist from left panel >> select Add to Up Next option. Enjoy  

A: My solution to 'not playing all songs in a playlist (in my case, not doing continuous play one song after another; or in 'shuffle') was quick and embarrassingly easy - the shaded box in front of songs' titles did not have a check mark. Mystery as to how the check marks had disappeared?!?
I did not notice this right off so I wasted time trying different things. So, I suggest step 1, make sure the boxes are checked.

A: Did you try going into the song properties (right-click song choose "Get Info") and from he "Options" tab de-select the tick that is in "Skip When Shuffling"? 

A: Select all songs in playlist.(click on 1st song, hold shift key and click on last song) Right click. click on "Check Selection" All songs will be selected and they will all play.

A: Itunes is really annoying on this point, the workaround is fairly easy though, shuffle the tracks until they look like an order you are happy with, then click on a track and select all (cmd A). Right click and click play next, iTunes will then play every track in the order shown on your screen. If there are lots of tracks in your list that iTunes never play, click at the top of the column headed 'plays' and the list will be reordered so that you can then scroll to the part of the list with no play and select just those tracks, right click and 'play next', you can then listen to all the tracks that iTunes refuses to play! :) Now I have given you all that information iTunes will probably change the programme again so that you won't get all your tracks :( Good luck music buffs! 

A: Under the Play/Pause, FF and Rewind buttons, there is a Shuffle button and a Repeat button. Make sure the Repeat button in Not selected. This worked for me.

A: Right click on the song. Click "Check Selection". :) Worked for me!
