Q: Migrating from MacPorts to Homebrew. Is there any specific advice in how to minimize disruption? I want to stop using macports, and use homebrew instead, I have been reading on their approach and it makes more sense to me.
Now, I don't care much about having to reinstall my packages, even if some of them might not exist yet -- apparently, creating a new formula is straightforward.
But I'm a bit concerned about data which is installed in system-owned directories, like the data in MySQL or PostgreSQL. I'd like a bit of advice on how to proceed so as to have the less amount of problems migrating data from one installation to another.
I'm also curious about start scripts for daemons. Macports have complicated wrappers for launchd, but I don't know how homebrew manages that aspect. Can anyone clarify this for me?
Also, any generic advice you can provide regarding this migration will also be welcome. Things to look for, what to avoid, etc.

A: A bit off-topic but wanted to share my experience on this topic.
About 6month / a year ago, I decided to do some cleanup and uninstalled port and fink to the benefit of brew, which I prefer.
Today... Got the three again. Why?


*

*brew as my main source

*port provides MANY more packages than brew and I needed some of them (like wireshark+nox11)

*fink for some rare packages (I think I only reinstalled it for some dpkg utils)


Just my 2 cents, not everyone needs these packages. But before uninstalling port, check twice the packages you need ;)

A: Moving data is dependant on the application that manages it, e.g. if it's a database you could do a dump and restore it on the new installation, if it's a configuration file just copy it, etc.
HomeBrew packages create the config files for launchd in the Cellar (read: formula's install dir) and at the end of the install process display an how-to install those files (the caveats method in formulas source) which  generally is a simple cp and launchctl sequence.
Creating formulas is indeed easy, and the developers will happily accept your new or updated formulas. The process is,

In summary: fork, clone, create, commit, push, audit (new-formula)

Last but not least: take a look at the wiki.
