Q: BBEdit - The authenticated save for this file failed (application error code: 20004) I'm trying to edit my hosts file with BBEdit 10. When I begin, it tells me to unlock the file with this message:

Are you sure you want to unlock "hosts"?
You aren't a member of the group "wheel".

I go ahead and unlock the file but I'm not able to save it. When I try to I get this error:

The authenticated save for this file failed (application error code: 20004)

I can edit and save the file with TextEdit or Textmate, so I'm guessing that I do have the proper permissions. Why can't I save the file with BBEdit? Is it because I bought the App Store version instead of the direct download?

A: I emailed Bare Bones's support about a related issue, and they sent me a link to a support page, which provides a workaround for the MAS limitation. They provide a script you can download into BBEdit's Application Support directory, which adds the feature back. No need to abandon the MAS after all!

A: Yes, the App Store version is not able to do authenticated saves. From the Bare Bones Mac App Store FAQ

Are there any differences between the Mac App Store versions of your
  software and the versions available directly from your web site?
  [...]
In BBEdit and TextWrangler, authenticated saves (the ability to save
  changes to files that you do not own) and the command-line tools are
  not available in the Mac App Store versions, in order to comply with
  Apple’s submission guidelines.
  [...]
Authenticated saves will not be possible in versions of BBEdit or
  TextWrangler obtained from the Mac App Store. If you desire this
  capability, please purchase BBEdit directly from us or download
  TextWrangler directly from us.
If you have already purchased BBEdit from the Mac App store and need
  support for authenticated saves, please contact our customer service
  department for assistance. We will require proof of purchase from the
  Mac App Store in order to assist you; if you include that information
  when you write us, doing so will speed the process.

Update: As of version 10.1.1 there is a script that BareBones has provided to allow users of the Mac App Store version to enable this feature. More information is available on this Auth Saves Support Page. 

A: You can sort of get around this, though it's clumsy.


*

*Open the file in TextWrangler, then also in TextEdit. Use text edit to make a duplicate with any filename.

*Do your changes in TextWrangler as usual. It won't let you save, so Copy the whole file, and Paste it as a complete replacement of the duplicate you made in TextEdit.

*Save the duplicate. This is the finished file.

*Go into finder and manually change the filenames to replace the old one with a new one of the exact same file name.


A: Had the same issue, but with error code 100013 (permission error related to folders). The problem was that bbedit can't edit files just anywhere, so the directory ~/myproject was off limits for it.
I solved the issue by moving my project to the ~/Documents folder.

A: The link to the script which fixes the issue is here:
http://www.barebones.com/support/bbedit/auth-saves.html
And as Rafael said, restarting BBEdit is necessary, despite the wording on barebones's site.

A: I just ran into this problem, the go around that I used was to save the file on the Desktop and then I dragged it into the restricted directory.
Closed the file on BBEdit then re-opened the file from the directory into BBEdit and it works fine.
