Q: Macbook Pro with Lion: scrolling via trackpad vs. mouse So the default scrolling behavior for the trackpad in Lion is to scroll in the direction of your finger movement similar to the iPad. This can be changed in the trackpad preferences by un-checking Scroll Direction: natural. I get that part. My problem is that un-checking or checking this box in the trackpad settings also causes the box in the mouse settings page labeled Move content in the direction of finger movement when scrolling or navigating to be checked or un-checked - effectively tying the mouse scroll wheel behavior to the trackpad scroll behavior. Is this a bug?
I want to be able to scroll with the trackpad in the default Lion way while still being able to scroll with a mouse wheel in a conventional way. Is there a workaround to the above issue to be able to do this?

A: Yes there's just one setting for all input devices.. It's a pity because the natural scrolling doesn't work as well with regular scroll-wheel mice. It works great with an Apple Magic mouse, in my experience. Hopefully someone will find a hack for this.

A: There is a workaround, and it is called Scroll Reverser. That screenshot says it all; you can invert scrolling per-axis and per-device.

A: 
tell application "System Preferences"
      activate
      set current pane to pane "com.apple.preference.trackpad" end tell
tell application "System Events"
      tell process "System Preferences"
          click radio button "Scroll & Zoom" of tab group 1 of window
  "Trackpad"
          click checkbox 1 of tab group 1 of window "Trackpad"
      end tell end tell
tell application "System Preferences"
      quit end tell

Try this - you can have a small script/app on your desktop for switching scrolling from natural to the old one. As soon as I plug in my USB mouse i just run this script ale everyhting is set up.

A: I was able to set up ControlPlane to automatically toggle OS X natural scrolling on/off when I switch between using my trackpad & mouse.
I outlined exactly how to set it up step-by-step in this blog post: http://kellenmace.com/automate-trackpad-mouse-natural-scrolling-in-mac-os-x/
I looked at Scroll Reverser also, but the developer describes a few downsides to using it on his website that I wanted to avoid. I'm happy to report that this ControlPlane solution is working perfectly. I hope it helps anyone still looking for a solution.
