Q: Is there a practical ePub book reader program for Mac OS X? Adobe Digital Editions has some capabilities but is essentially an orphaned product with no support.
Stanza only displays text in ePub books, and again, is an orphaned product with no support.
Calibre is mostly for building e-books. It has a text-only ePub reader but it's even more primitive than Stanza for Mac.
Scrivener can compile and output ePub format, but I don't think it can display them for reading on your Mac.
There are various apps for iPad and iPhone, but I already know about them.
And let's not discuss DRM issues; what we all want is a reader that will let us display ePub books (without DRM, or perhaps certain forms of DRM), one that supports displaying significant formatting and graphics and photographs if present.
Is there anything out there at present other than what I've noted above?
Let's exclude Window, Linux, or anything that would require X11. I'm hoping somebody knows of a native Mac app, or something you can run in a Web browser.

A: I haven't used it - so I can't say if it's any good - but I noticed that you didn't include the Barnes & Noble app in your list. Have you tried using that to view your ePub books?

A: BookReader
I can't vouch for this guy because I haven't bought it yet.  But you might want to try this app store variant if your willing to spend a little money.  Price is usually $10, but it appears to be on sale right now.
It supports 10.7 Lion, gestures, and appears to be well supported.

A: Ehon is intended to manage comic books and ePub and is available on the Mac App Store. (It used to be paid, now is free)
It seems a bit buggy though and to me, the Nook software might be a better choice. 

A: RE: ".. Let's exclude Window, Linux, or anything that would require X11. I'm hoping somebody knows of a native Mac app, or something you can run in a Web browser."
Sorry, there are no native Mac epub readers that work any better than Stanza or Calibre (which, in my opinion, don't work very well at all as an actual "reader" app).
The best I can find is the Firefox extension, ePubReader (which works quite nicely, if you have Firefox installed).
Hope this helps. 

A: There is a new free epub reader available for OS X: Kitabu (free)

A: Maybe you can try the eBook reader, Ehon, which is a native Mac app but it is not free.  You may download the trail version from http://ehonapp.com/en/index.php

A: Other alternatives:
E-Book Preview, http://macbookreader.com/wp/bookviewer (v.5.7 is the last full-featured free version)
Bookreader Free, http://macbookreader.com/wp/  (there's also a paid version)
Kitabu, www.kitabu.me
Clearview, Canoe Software (App Store) 
Stanza was freeware, copies are still lurking on the Internets. 

A: I'm using a free program called Calibre for Mac OS - works like a charm on Lion.
