Q: How to figure out what app is sending/receiving huge amounts of data on an iPhone? I have an iPhone which has suddenly (last two months) started going way over the 200mb data plan it was on.  Prior to this it wasn't even close to the limits.
The only information the phone company (AT&T) gives me is the amounts, and the times (which from what I understand is just a billing time for a grouped amount of data).  Here is a sample:
08/23  12:07 AM  Sent  198679KB
08/22  12:07 AM  Sent  6070KB
08/21  12:06 AM  Sent  13757KB
08/20  12:06 AM  Sent  5993KB
08/19  12:54 AM  Sent  64947KB
08/17  10:05 PM  Sent  165247KB
08/17  12:02 AM  Sent  12707KB
08/16  12:02 AM  Sent  90KB
08/15  12:42 AM  Sent  23581KB
08/14  12:10 AM  Sent  35819KB

And on top of the huge amounts on 3G, this phone spent very little time outside Wifi.
Is there any possible way (without jailbreaking!) to find out what app could possibly transferring this much data? At present, AT&T will not or can not give me a breakdown of the traffic destinations. Even if it were possible, I would like an answer that lies within the phone as a check against what the carrier is measuring if that is possible.

A: In your shoes with my meager knowledge, I'd just pick a good candidate or two and remove them from the iPhone with iTunes.  It should result in a huge loss of free space, and iTunes could show that.
Another less involved method would be to just turn them off by double-clicking the Home button and holding one until the x appears.
It's probably just one app, but sorting it out will take time and $ until you find it.
There are probably better ways that others will suggest, but this is something to start with.

A: There are several apps that may help you track down app data usage:


*

*A combination of NetStat and Data Usage: The former will let you know all the connections at a point in time. The latter claims to work with any wireless provider and can provide wireless and WiFi data usage reports. The app also claims to "track data hog application by checking since last run counter". These will assist in a process of elimination search to potentially rule out or in some apps as users of the data.

*Onavo (reviewed here): Provides compression of data for the iPhone and generates reports of the amount of data usage by app/category. Limitations - currently only works with AT&T for US users, can't compress streaming video. There may also be security risks, as your data is routed through Onavo's servers.
I also found this list of notable iOS data tracking apps that may suit your needs.
Caveat: I haven't personally used these apps, but the reviews seem promising.

A: After several careful readings of your question, something stood out:

And on top of the huge amounts on 3G, this phone spent very little time outside Wifi.

Your iPhone, when it's in sleep mode, turns off the WiFi radio to conserve battery power. So if you have data hungry apps that are doing things in the background when your phone is sleeping/locked, they're doing it over 3G. Note that the WiFi-off-in-sleep-mode behaviour is somewhat inconsistent. But you can ensure 3G is never used by your phone while you're performing these tests by shutting off cellular data. That way, when it sleeps, it will continue to use WiFi and not 3G for data and you'll be certain to capture all the traffic in your monitoring net.

You can cobble together some technologies that might help you track down the culprit.
As a quick first pass you could try monitoring the phone when it's on a WiFi network using mitmproxy. From this excellent mclov.in blog post, you can setup a proxy for your phone on your Mac and filter all http/s traffic through it:


*

*Download the mitmproxy tool and set it up by going to the folder of mitmproxy and running sudo python setup.py install. If all goes well, mitmproxy must be available in your $PATH.

*Start mitmproxy by running mitmproxy.

*Obtain the IP address of your computer by running ifconfig en1 (or whatever is the interface that you are using).

*Set the proxy on your iPhone by going to your wireless settings, setting the proxy to be “Manual”, and set the IP to be your computer’s IP and the port as 8080.


If you set mitmproxy to record http/s calls to a file you can analyze it after some period of time and look for trends. You'll also be able to inspect the payloads on the http/s calls so you might able to spot unusually large requests this way.
Of course: this approach assumes the culprit is using http/s for communication. If it's not, you won't see the problem via mitmproxy and you have to resort to a lower-level solution.
You need to monitor all the traffic on a WiFi network you control to help you hunt down at least the end points for the data transfers. Bandwidth monitoring isn't hard to set up, but keeping a per-IP, per-endpoint log is really tough to do with consumer-grade hardware because it can be A MASSIVE amount of data. Every packet has to be checked for origin, destination, logged for time and size -- it adds up really quick.
But you can get some decent numbers and narrow down the search space so it's something potentially human-parseable.
First: you need to setup a network with bandwidth monitoring on a per-IP level. For that I recommend a Linksys WRT54GL consumer-grade WiFi router running Tomato and the TeamanIPTraffic add-on for IP-level bandwidth tracking.
Second: set your DNS on the router to use OpenDNS. In your OpenDNS account to track DNS lookups:


*

*Log in to https://dashboard.opendns.com/

*Click the 'Settings' tab

*Click the IP address for the network associated with your router

*Click 'Stats and Logs' on the left side

*Make sure 'Enable stats and logs' is checked and click the 'Apply' button


Now any DNS lookups performed on your network will be logged.
Assign your phone a static IP on this network so it's easier to track.
And...wait and watch.
You're going to monitor the activity for the IP address assigned to your phone in your router's per-IP activity tables. When the data activity for this IP address spikes you'll head over to your OpenDNS console and take a look at the stats and logs for your DNS lookups for the period of time when data movement was high for your phone.
That should give a short list [sic] of hostnames that were being resolved at the time. And armed with that list you might able to narrow it down to an application.

A: Since iOS 7, you can go into Settings -> Mobile Data and see a list of all apps along with the amount of data used (since statistics were last reset) by each. You can also turn off mobile data on a per-app basis in the same place.
If you are seeing unexplained high mobile data usage, try disabling Wi-Fi Assist in the same settings screen; it lets your phone use mobile data even when it has a Wi-Fi connection, if it considers that connection to be sub-par.

A: I believe there are some iPhone apps which enable you to log and monitor your data usage. I haven't used any personally, but I did some Googling, and found that the guys who made NetUse for Mac are planning to make a similar application for iPhone. I also found this thread, which essentially asks the same question; maybe there are some answers in there.
Perhaps you could use that when it comes out, or search around on the iPhone App Store to see if something similar already exists :)

A: I would recommend taking several hours to systematically go through your apps, one by one. First, quit all your apps. Take a note of the time you open the app and the time you close it (removing it from the multitasking bar, of course). Repeat with the next app. When you see AT&T's report, you should be able to tell from the times given which app uses the network that much.

A: I'm surprised it hasn't been mentioned... But make SURE to check your EMAIL settings.  There are options for...


*

*Push on? (more bandwidth)

*Message preview setting? (more bandwidth, I'd assume)

*Load images ?(more bandwidth)

*Fetch time? (lower = more bandwidth)

*Multiple accounts?


And depending on your calendar / contacts setup, photos, frequency of changes... Those could also be affecting it.  Also, do you have iCloud, or Find my iPhone turned on, of late... That could surely have effected your usage numbers..
While it's prolly negligible... You can also turn on and off notifications for non-essential apps.. To eliminate one additional (unlikely) source of the problem.
I went over on my iPad one month - and changing my aggressive email checking settings fixed it all for me...  But, in the time shortly after it happened.. I also would slip it into airplane mode /wifi on whenever possible.. I'd assume you're using the cellular network for phone calls (which I wasn't), so that precautionary measure may be innapropriate... But if you need to do what you need to do to make sure you don't go over.. Thats an option.

A: Well you could turn it off by closing all your apps that require data then going to Settings -> General -> Network and flip the cellular data switch to off.
