Q: Useful Chrome extensions for OS X I know there is already a post out there for Safari extensions, but Chrome extensions are completely different. So, what extensions do you think are useful? Please read these simple rules before posting:


*

*Include only one extension in each anwer.

*Include a description of the extension, its pros/cons, and why you use it.

*Link to the developer's website, rather than a direct download page. 

*Cite the application name like such:
#appName by [developer]

*Check to see if there are duplicates
in this post by typing in the search box:
inquestion:this
searchTerm

*Please do not give a price because that can localize your answer too much.


A: FlashBlock by josorek
No developer site listed
Description:
Sets up Chrome to default to blocking Flash content on webpages.
Pros:

*

*Helps reduce download time and bandwidth usage since flash files aren't loaded by default.


*Easy to adjust blocking filter to allow flash for entire sites via a button in the address bar.
Cons:

*

*Sometimes removes stuff without an easy way to add it back with the extension running.


A: AdBlock by chromeadblock.com
(The listed developer link just circles back to the extension URL.)
Pros:

*

*Does a good job of preventing ads from showing up. Inspired by the Firefox Extension AdBlock Plus.


*Helps reduce the time it takes for pages to render and bandwidth usage since ads don't have to download.
Cons:

*

*Some sites and/or features don't work with ads blocked.


A: StackNotify by me :)
Your StackExchange notification inbox, right into your browser's toolbar.

A: Google Mail Checker by google.com
Displays the number of unread messages in your Google Mail inbox. You can also click the button to open your inbox.

A: Chrome Currency Converter by phaistonian
You just install it and you forget about foreign currencies once and for all :)

This extension will automatically convert prices (Dollars, Pounds, Yen and Euros) within the page to the selected currency.
If any conversions take place, an icon will appear on the address bar. Hovering on it will show the sum of conversions.Clicking it will restore (and convert back) the affected prices.


A: DNSSD by Andrew Tunnell-Jones
Developer's description:

This extension provides quick and easy access to DNSSD advertised
websites from within Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox.

AKA it's an awesome plugin that shows you all Bonjour sites/services available on your network! Think Safari's Bonjour collection but awesomer, geekier and in a decent browser.

A: Tabs  to the front!
Add missing functionality to Chrome.
From the developer:

Brings newly created tabs to the foreground.


A: AutoPagerize
Turns long, multi-paged articles into one page. Great extension!

A: Aviary Image Editor by Aviary.com
A powerful layer-based image editing application.

A: Speed Tracer by Google
A tool to help you identify and fix performance problems in your web applications.

A: Edit this Cookie
Free little extension that allows you to view and edit cookies.

A: Google +1 Button by google.com
An extension that allows you to +1 any page from Google Chrome.

A: PageRank Status by ChromeFans.org
PageRank Status is a nifty little extension that allows you to see the page rank of the web page you are on. It also adds several other useful tools, such as Alexa Ranks, Whois, Geolocation, and several other handy tools:


A: Print Friendly & PDF by printfriendly.com
Converts website articles into pleasing-to-the-eye documents that you download.  A beagle could operate this app. Click a green button to right of URL bar and a window appears with a preview of the automatic removal of ads, most images, etc.  End result looks like Reader view in iOS Safari, but then, before you download, you can still customize and either remove all images or scale them to 25%, 50% etc., or inoculate any image you don't need by literally just clicking on it.  Genius.  A must-have for grad students.  There is no price, so I hope I'm breaking OP's final rule to say it's free.
