Q: Mac Pro gets stuck in "safe mode" after Lion upgrade Late 2009 Mac Pro, 8GB RAM, 1TB disk. 
I upgraded to Lion about a month ago. Running 10.7.1 now. Things started getting unbearably slow (windows slow to scroll), can't switch between programs without a long pause, etc.) Nothing obvious is running (checked ActivityMonitor, CPU is largely idle).  
Some Googling suggested running Disk Utility to repair permissions. I did that, it finished quickly and without issue. For good measure I decided to reboot in safe mode and let it do a disk repair.
But it never gets past about the 10% mark in whatever it's doing when it enters safe mode (I just have the gray progress bar and spinner.) I let it run for about 4 hours and it didn't budge.  I powered it off, repeated, and same deal- always gets stuck in the same place in safe mode.
Any suggestions on what could be wrong? The disk is large (1TB), but only 357GB in use. Should I let it run overnight? I miss the good old days when Unix kernels would print gobs of messages to the console, so you could at least figure out what it's doing.
Update: so I re-ran Disk Utility and got the following: 
http://i.imgur.com/aG66g.png
I don't have physical media for Lion, so I'm not sure what to do here. Can I do a disk repair from a Snow Leopard DVD?
Update 2: Booted into the recover partition with Cmd-R. Ran the recovery successfully, system boots, it's fine. 
But if I try safe mode it still hangs. Booting Cmd-V shows a quick fsck, then it boots up normally, so I can't see any problems there. It just seems to hang in safe mode.  
Update 3: Booted single-user, ran fsck -fy as suggested by bmike. I let it run overnight, and it found no problems. Interestingly, I do get:
E:[AppleUSBBluetoothHCIController][InterruptedReadHandler] Received kIOUSBHighSpeedSplitError error

on the console when I powered on my monitor. It repeats if I power-cycle the monitor. I have a USB Bluetooth wireless plugged into that monitor (which is in turn plugged into the Macpro's USB). 
The USB-Bluetooth is there because my Macpro's internal Bluetooth arrived non-functional from the factory 2 years ago, and I gave up with Apple customer service on getting it repaired. I settled for the USB-Bluetooth plug to handle my bluetooth mouse.
I wonder if having this USB-Bluetooth is somehow causing the Safe Mode hang.

A: Boot to single user mode (Command-S) and see what fsck shows. 


*

*/sbin/fsck -fy

*repeat the prior up to three times if needed


Assuming it boots, you can halt and then boot in verbose mode (Command-V) to restore all the console glory. 
You can also peek at /private/var/log/system.log while on single user mode to see what was happening when the clock was passing faster than the gray progress bar. 

A: I was only able to solve this by doing a clean install of OSX Lion, then used Migration Assistant to copy over my data. Now I'm able to boot to safe mode successfully.
What forced me into doing the clean-install was that my Time Machine backups started failing. I don't know why, but it would fail repeatedly trying to copy the same files (I could cp -a them just fine on the command line). Looking at the system logs, it was the same files every time.
TM also failed to backup the system to my backup-backup TM drive (I alternate between two physical TM disks). It was only happy after I formatted one of the drives and started from scratch.
Here's what I did in detail:


*

*Disabled Time Machine

*Used Disk Utility to erase my TM drive (yes, I lost my historical backups).

*Re-enabled Time Machine, set it to use the newly-formatted TM drive.

*Let TM do a full Backup.

*Booted using Lion installer on a USB key

*Used Disk Utility to erase my Macintosh HD

*Performed Lion install

*Once booted to Lion, ran Migration Assistant to transfer my data from TM.


I'm really not happy about losing my older backups, but I needed a stable system more than I needed the old data. 
This has been a really frustrating experience. I'm very careful about backups, yet every other release or so, OSX manages to trash them for me.
