Q: How do I stop iCal from launching Mail.app? I do not use Mail.app, instead using Postbox 2 for all my email needs. I do use iCal for my calendaring, syncing it with my Google Apps accounts.
Whenever iCal wants to send a reminder, it tries to open Mail.app to do so, which is highly annoying.
Currently the only solution I have working is to zip up Mail.app in /Applications so iCal can no longer access it. However whenever the OS updates (i.e. from Snow Leopard to Lion) it replaces Mail.app and I have to do this again. This seems overly hackish.
Is there a way to force iCal to stop trying to open Mail.app without having to manually remove Mail.app?

A: The instructions below (posted here) did it for us as our permissions were, actually, on "Read Only" and the Mail.app was still launching. 
Note: If iCal still opens Mail.app for mailing an event after you have set Postbox as your default mail client:


*

*Within the Finder, right-click on the iCal icon and then select Show Package Contents.

*Navigate to the "Contents" folder, then the "Resources" folder. Right-click on the folder called "Scripts" and select Get Info.

*Expand the Sharing & Permissions box and click the Lock Icon in the lower right hand corner to unlock this setting. Change any permissions that are listed as "Read Only" to "Read & Write."

*Restart Postbox.


If more information is needed, check out a more detailed Postbox iCal Integration page for more options and troubleshooting tips.
Have a great day!

A: The non useful way is not to set email as the reminder action in iCal.
More constructively is to write an Automator action that uses Postbox and then use that automator action as the reminder action.
I have an automator as an app and this is entered in the iCal GetInfo as

To create an iCal Alarm - Start automator and the first thing offers options for the workflow and one of them is an iCal Alarm - The automator then can include a shell or applescript script to call your mailer

A: I had the same thing and found the answer on SuperUser:

Therefore, unless you disable Mail.app responding to this AppleScript call (tell application "Mail"), there's really only one way to kill Mail.app (as per my comment on waiwai's answer):

sudo chmod 000 /Applications/Mail.app/Contents/MacOS/Mail


To reverse:

sudo chmod 755 /Applications/Mail.app/Contents/MacOS/Mail


A: You can try this :
Open the Mail App. Then, in the Preferences Dialogue Box, change the value of the pop-up menu parameter called "Default email reader" to "Postbox 2".


A: A similar question was recently asked about Sparrow here: How can I use Sparrow to send iCal e-mail notifications instead of Mail.app?
In answer to that question I found a script that does close to what you want but for Sparrow (an alternate mail client for OS X). You might be able to alter that AppleScript to achieve what you are after with your mail client of choice.
