Q: Can I edit content on an FTP server through Finder? Is there any way around the read-only access that Finder strictly allows so I can get write access to a FTP server through Finder?

A: You can use MacFusion, which allows to connect to a FTP server through a filesystem device.
MacFusion requires MacFUSE, or OSXFUSE with the compatibility layer for MacFUSE.

  
*
  
*Mount files and documents as a "Volume" in the Mac OS X Finder.
  
*Work with your files using your favorite Mac OS X applications directly. No manual upload or download needed!
  
*Support for SSH (Secure Shell) and FTP (File Transfer Protocol) servers.
  
*Uses your machine's native configuration for SSH, including support for private keys and custom settings.
  
*Quickly connect to a any server using the Quick Connect dialog, accessible from Macfusion's optional menu item.
  



A: Try Transmit.

With the new Transmit Disk feature, you can now mount any of your favorites in the Finder itself, even if Transmit's not running. These volumes are real: drag files to your SFTP server, save a small graphic to your Amazon S3 bucket directly from Photoshop, or roll your own iDisk-like backup volume. It's all possible in T4.


A: No you can't get around the read-only access, but here are some great FTP clients:
Cyberduck
A great free FTP client. This is my go-to application. Anytime I need FTP access, I use Cyberduck. It's not quite as lightweight as Fugu, but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu. I like the Growl integration with Cyberduck.

Fugu
Awesome little free FTP client. As I noted above, this is a lightweight FTP client. It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing. I do like the dual panel navigation.

Last, but not least, you can use the CLI. Just type ftp username@foo.com at the prompt. If you've used the command line before, you know that ls lists directories, cd changes directories. Example: ls ~/Desktop lists the contents of your Desktop (the "~" is a shortcut for your home folder). cd ~/Desktop changes to current directory to your Desktop. To download files, you can use mget or get. Here's the Apple man page on FTP.

A: No, but you can use any one of many third-party FTP clients, some of which are free.
FileZilla. Open-source and cross-platform
