Q: Is there a way to write rules for incoming calls? I'd like to write some rules for incoming calls on my iPhone.  For instance, if a call from a certain number comes in, I'd like it to go to voice-mail.  Or simply hang up and not answer at all.
Is there a way to do this natively on the iPhone or perhaps an app that does that?

A: Without jail breaking iOS - you can't get a phone call on any app but the Apple phone app (which doesn't support call screening as you asked).
Some carriers will let you set this up - but it's nothing to do with the iPhone.
Lastly, there are tons of services that require another phone number. Google Voice is one where you can program quiet hours, white list or black list and have exactly such control. 
The downside to these other apps is that you'll need to have people call your alternate number, so it's not as easy - even with the ability to port an existing number to GV and then get a new number from your carrier.
Several iOS apps work with Google Voice like the official app and GV Mobile + and there are probably a hundred other VOIP solutions on the app store, but Google and Skype are the big players today.

A: If you DO want to jailbreak, iBlacklist works great for this.
You can have blacklists, whitelists, lists just for SMS, lists that occur during a certain schedule (say work hours), multiple lists active simultaneously, and different actions for different lists, etc. 
So you could use it to ignore some calls, some some calls straight to voicemail, and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says "At work, will call you back tonight" etc

A: While there are some jailbreak options, which I think have all been discussed in other answers here. Have you tried just calling up your network and seeing if they will block calls from the specific number from ever getting through? You can certainly do this on landlines so I can't see why a mobile would be any different.
There is no feature built into the iPhone, nor any 3rd party iPhone app that will do what you're after. Unless you join the darkside ;)

A: Settings/Do Not Disturb - select manual on(green), allow calls from (all contacts), silence (always).  This will allow all contacts on your contact list to ring through.  Everyone else gets the silent treatment.  

A: just turn your phone on airplane mode!! and if you have wi-fi then you can turn on the wifi and still use the internet but you will not recieve phone calls or texts from anyone it will go straight to voicemail.. if you only want it for certain people tho then you need to call your carier and have them blocked. hope this helps
