Q: Why don't .ico files created in Icon Composer work on Windows? For a couple of months now I've been creating favicons using Icon Composer (which comes with Xcode). It can save .ico files, and I know that sometimes Windows shows (or used to show) larger versions of the icon in some circumstances, so I thought I'd do it that way instead of just using a tiny .png.
Imagine my surprise when a Windows-using coworker tells me that he can't see any of the favicons I've created this way. No Windows browser seems to render them correctly, and only Firefox even attempts to render them at all.
So are .ico files produced by Icon Composer not supposed to be Windows-compatible? If not, is there any quick way to convert them into versions that are? If so, what might I be doing wrong?
UPDATE: Here is an example of a broken .ico file  produced by Icon Composer. My coworkers are all on Windows 7, so it's not just a Windows XP issue.

UPDATE 2: This happens with .ico files saved from both Icon Composer 2.1 (Xcode 3) and 2.2 (Xcode 4). In Firefox on Windows, display of these icons is corrupted; the icon is shifted to the right several pixels, and the right side is cut off and wraps around to the left side, as seen here:
.

A: Do you get the same issue if you try Hobiconer to export your icons? Superior to Icon Composer in every way, and free. 
The commercial successor of Hobiconer called Icon Slate is $4.99 in the App Store, however Hobiconer is still out there for grabs (hence the link to Softpedia's mirrored file)

A: What version of Icon Composer do you use?
I will upload the icon you listed after I made it a converted ico with Xcode 4's Icon Composer.
http://f.cl.ly/items/2v2R473k1N0z1D2R3R3i/badfavicon.ico
As noted 256x256 is what windows 7 uses for icons.
What exactly are you doing that required them to be in ico format? 
If you are making web icons would it not be easier to use a different more generic format of an image such as a png or jpeg.
Edit: I tested my image made in the same format and in firefox on mac it decides to display the 16x16 instead of the 256x256 so maybe the browser is being selective on the sizes it presenting or it cannot process the way the ico file is built to determine the image size
Its hard for me to assist without really knowing the reason they need to be in ico format for view in web browsers

A: My suggestion is to use GIMP instead of Icon Composer. I used to fiddle with Windows icons a fair bit, and it never messed up for me. My only problems with it (on Mac OS X) are:


*

*Much slower startup time compared to Icon Composer.

*Can't drag-and-drop (have to use File->Open [as Layers]).

