Q: Why is my Mac constantly trying to connect to another server? After logging on, I see this dialog box pop up. Whenever I dismiss it, it reappears 30 seconds later. (Stealing focus at the same time! Grrrr!)

"Slate" is my old iMac, which is sitting on the desk next to me, turned off. How can I stop my new Mac from constantly trying to connect to my old one? Both are running 10.7.1.

A: I'm pretty sure this was happening because when I logged out, I was running an app which was located on the other computer.
I logged off and unchecked the "Reopen windows when logging back in" box, which stopped Lion from trying to reopen the app the next time I logged in.


A: This error typically comes up when OSX is trying to access a file or folder on a remote server, but it cannot connect to that server.
I have two examples to give an idea of where this can come from:


*

*You are able to have OSX connect to a remote folder automatically at
login. Typically these are shown in the "Login Items" tab of the
"Users & Groups" pref pane


*When an application attempts to open a file that's on a remote
server, OSX automatically tries to connect to that server in order
to access the file.
For example: If the music in your iTunes library is on a mounted
network drive, and you have not connected the drive yet, playing a
track will delay while it connects the drive and then iTunes will
play the track.
In both cases, if the server where these files are located cannot be found, that error will come up.
Full disclosure: this was originally my answer to Endlessly repeating "There was a problem connecting..." error. That question has been marked as a duplicate of this one.

A: I suspect you are connecting to a legacy file server as described in the kbase article below. 
http://support.apple.com/kb/HT4700
We saw similar pop ups but clearing up our mounts addressed the issue. 

A: Check System Preferences>Accounts>Login Items to see if there is a disk that is supposed to mount when you login. Make sure you check all of the user accounts.

