Q: Applications gone from Dock. How to restore? Somehow the Applications icon is gone from my Dock. However I can't just drag the Applications folder (from Finder) into the Dock. How else can I restore it?
Is there a config file somewhere for the Dock that I can just edit with vi and fix this?
Thanks.

A: go to finder. in the left panel, find the Applications folder. right click and select "Add to Dock", when the App folder shows in the dock - if it shows differently than before, again right click, and "Display as" select "Folder".

A: Hmm, depending on how precisely you formulated the question there are several possible answers:


*

*The Applications folder is missing from the Dock


*

*Navigate to Computer in Finder (Shift-Command-C)

*Open local hard drive (usually called "Macintosh HD" or computername)

*Drag the Applications folder to the Dock (near the end where the other folders and the trash are located)

*Right-click the folder in the Dock and select show as folder


*The Applications folder/link is missing from the Favorites list in any Finder window


*

*Step 1 and 2 as above

*Drag the Applications folder to the Favorites list 


*You are actually missing the Launchpad icon from the Dock


*

*Step 1 and 2 as above

*Open the Applications folder

*Locate Launchpad and drag it to the Dock (near the beginning this time)



A: You can find the Applications folder by clicking on the Finder icon in the Dock.
Then typing ⌘ + ⇧ + G. In the sheet window opened type /Applications. The Finder will the Go the folder. From there, just drag it back to your Dock.
If you're talking about the App Store icon: 

Invoke Spotlight, type App Store and then ⌘ + ⏎.
A Finder window will open with the App Store app selected, and you'll just have to drag it back to the Dock.

A: You have to drag it onto the "folders and files" section of the dock, which is next to the trash can.
You cannot put a folder in the main applications section of the dock.
When you drop it on the dock, it will not immediately allow you to add a new item - it will instead attempt to let you drop it onto something on the dock. You may need to hold it in between two icons for a second or so before the icons slide to the side, then you can drop it on the dock.
Alternatively, you can type this into a shell to reset the dock to the default state:
defaults delete com.apple.dock; killall Dock

It will also reset a few other settings. See defaults read com.apple.dock to see what will be deleted.
This may also work for you:
defaults delete com.apple.dock persistent-apps
defaults delete com.apple.dock persistent-others
killall Dock


A: though i use mac osx 10.7.4 and this is how i did it, i went to applications through  go which is at the top with the finder,the applications opened, i then dragged the small application folder which is at the top of the applications to my Dock, then i right clicked and choose the option folder.

A: Drag Launchpad.app to the Dock.  I am using Maverick 10.9.2

A: 
Open Finder > Application > Find Launchpad.app and drag to your Dock.

A: i had the same issue after trying a few of the above... i used finder, then mac HD when the applications folder appeared in the list below i dragged and dropped it on dock. then show as folder.
