Q: How to reduce lag when scrolling in Preview? I have a large pdf file and I was wondering how I could decrease the lag when scrolling. 
I tried breaking the file into smaller sections (roughly 20 page chunks) but that didn't help. I'm thinking scrolling is so slow because each page is some sort of image.
Are there any other steps I can take to reduce the choppiness when scrolling?

A: How is the PDF compressed? If it is black and white only, it may be using a compression method that leads to choppy behaviour.
I was recently dealing with a product manual that was a black and white only scan. It was compressed using JBIG2, and it stuttered enormously when scrolling, even on a top-of-the-line MacBook.
I opened the document in Adobe Acrobat, and recompressed it using ZIP, and the scrolling problem went away entirely.
If you have Acrobat Pro, the steps I took were: Open the file -> Save As -> "Optimised PDF" -> Change the "Monochrome Images" compression dropdown to "ZIP" -> Ok.
It does increase the size of the file (from 1.2 MB to 3 MB), but I can actually skim the document now.
I think it mostly boils down to the fact that JBIG2 is compute-intensive, and Most PDF applications don't render the document much ahead of the current page.

If you don't have Acrobat, and you can post the PDF, I can take a look at it for you.

A: What are the specifications of your Mac? If you have very little RAM, that might impact your system speed overall.
UPDATE
According to your screen shot, this is a mid-2010 MacBook Pro with 4GB RAM. This is a fast computer with sufficient RAM for this task, so this is not the problem.

A: Using an alternate PDF viewer, eg. Skim, might improve performance.

A: Adobe's Acrobat Reader DC is significantly faster at opening and displaying some 1500+, 250 MB+, vector graphics-heavy files than preview. While Preview requires about 20 seconds to load it's more or less instantaneous in Acrobat Reader.

A: More info to share besides @Fake Name's answer:
After exploring all the pdfs I have that suffer from stuttering in scrolling, they are all old PDFs (I guess, generated by latex in the process ps->pdf), which uses Postscript font types (e.g. Type3). And the fonts are shown blurry in Preview.app. (No matter how small the PDFs are, e.g. <10k. However, if you only have a few pages, say 3 pages, the scrolling stutters only the first time you reach that page or during a few seconds after opening the file.)
The Preview.app on Yosemite fails to deal with these fonts appropriately (rendering, smoothing). When opening them, any scrolling on the pages firstly visited will show stuttering, lags (not slightly, quite obvious and serious). 
Alternative "Solution" (alleviating scrolling lags): in Preview.app, "Preferences" -> "PDF" tab -> uncheck "smooth text and line art". Then you will see significance improvement of scrolling performance. However, fonts are still shown blurry if not zooming in. One word, these fonts are no longer well supported after Yosemite. (Note that disable smoothing will give you really bad font rendering in other normal PDFs).
If I remember correctly, the old versions of OS X didn't have this problem; maybe certain functionalities of Preview.app have been removed, since new LaTeX typesetting systems no longer use these fonts any more (while you can still configure it and to use them). No idea why Apple meant to produce these troubles.

A: "Print to pdf" then open result in Preview again. It is a temporary fix or you could resave it this way for a permanent fix.

A: You could hit the space-bar which will open Preview.app
The file won't open with any Adobe program that way and won't lag.
Works great unless you have to edit the files for example, because you cannot achieve that with Preview.app.
