Q: What does .ipa stand for? What does the .ipa file extension (used for iOS app bundles) stand for? I'm guessing that it has something to do with iPhone app, but I'm not sure.

A: IPA stands for "iOS App Store Package", according to Apple - read the iOS Developer Library - section "Tools Workflow Guide for iOS->Distributing Apps".

Sending Your App to Testers
To send your app to testers:

*

*If you don’t have access to the project that generates the app, obtain an iOS App Store Package (IPA) file for your app from the appropriate teammate. Otherwise, generate the IPA file yourself:
a. Open the project in Xcode.
b. Archive your app.
c. Generate an IPA file for your app.


*Download the user testing provisioning profile for your app from the iOS Provisioning Portal to your file system. (You don’t have to install this profile in Xcode.)


*Email the user testing provisioning profile and the IPA file to your testers.


A: Your guess was correct.
.ipa stands for iOS App Store Package
Each .ipa file is compressed with a binary for the ARM architecture that can only be installed on iOS devices. If you change the extension to .zip you will be able to unzip it and view the contents.

A: According to Apple, .ipa stands for "iOS App Store Package". Wait a minute, that makes no sense at all. It originally stood for:
iPhone Archive
Then, when iPhone OS became iOS, they made up this new translation for it to make its purpose more clear.

A: .ipa stands for iOS Application Archive.

A: Its simple... IPA means IPhone Application...

A: It means Internet Protocol Address

A: As a rule, apps for the iPhone can only be obtained from the App Store as soon as they have been put up for sale there. The apps, so-called IPA files, can also be installed in a roundabout way.
There are various reasons why you might want to install an IPA file on your iPhone yourself. For example, to test a specially developed app or for other, less noble reasons. In this way, at least in theory, illegal copies of apps can be set up with the IPA files. However, you can also install IPA files in this way within narrow limits.
