Q: Are there privacy concerns with the Built-In iSight Camera and LED Indicator? I was having a discussion with some friends about the built in camera of computer and what you can do with them, and I realized that my macbook has one of those. That got me thinking about how the camera and LED are connected; Are they connected to the same power supply or can they be turned on or off individually?
If it's not connected to the same power supply has Apple said anything to ensure my privacy against anyone looking at me without the LED turning on?

A: I don't think turning off the green light while accessing the iSight is possible. I have checked the following sources for evidences against:


*

*Security software like Prey and Undercover - They are highly motivated to do so, but unable to.

*Drivers for other OS-es (Linux).

*Forums, mailing lists and security advisories.


And the conclusion is:

All Apple laptops have cameras that cannot be disabled (unless the LED is burnt out). Due to the way the iSight is set up electrically, the green light will always be on when in use.


A: I have in the past seen screen savers that have been able to access the camera to create flame or color effects based of the captured video. These screesavers had active access to the camera and yet the green LED was off. These screen savers were running on an iMac 2008 with 10.5. I have since tried those screen savers on newer OSes and they weren't compatible. Not sure if Apple changed to OS to prevent those things, if there was a firmware patch or what but I have seen this before.
I do agree with mspasov that Prey, Undercover, and Hidden are apps that would love this ability. If I see anything else in my search for an answer I will do my best to update.

A: Apparently camera signals are used for adjusting screen brightness. Try it out: when you cover the camera lens, the screen goes darker within a few seconds. The change is even reflected on the bar graph you see when you manually adjust the brightness so no mistaking there. This proves that some optical information gan be read from the camera even though the indicator light is off.  
