Q: What can you do to speed up your iOS device? What things can you do to increase the speed of your iPhone / iPad / iPod Touch?
It appears that over time, the iPhone gets slower and slower over time, and I have picked up a couple of tricks here and there, and I am sure there are more tips out there.
Speed in this context is being less sluggish switching between apps, not data-speed.
Please add only one solution per answer to make it easier to vote.

A: Cold, hard reboots
You perform the reboot by holding down home and power button for about ten seconds, even longer than for the red shutdown slider thingy to appear.
I have seen it reported in several places, that doing two consecutive reboots like this seems to work better that one. I don't know if that is true, but worth checking out.

A: Turn off Spotlight Search

Settings > General > Spotlight Search > Disable features you do not use

This seems to have a noticeable effect on how fast you switch between programs

A: Start fresh
Use iTunes to reinstall iOS from factory settings. To make it even fresher, don't migrate your old data (you'll probably lose games high scores) 
Having to rethink every settings, pondering whether you really need that GPS localization or this push notification can help limit the number of running processes.

A: Reset settings
Using Settings > General > Reset > Reset All Settings.  
You wont' lose any app data, only WiFi password and homescreen icon layout, but I found it to give my iPhone a new life.

A: Manage the number of open apps using the task switcher
You can double-tap the Home button to bring up the task switcher, then tap and hold an app's icon to terminate its process. Obvious targets to terminate are open sessions of most games (Angry Birds, Madden, NBA Jam, FIFA Soccer), Safari, etcetera.
The key point to remember is that iOS terminates apps in the background for you if it requires more resources such as memory. The rules that iOS uses are not clearly stated by Apple. However, from anecdotal experience and multiple posts online it is commonly believed that the apps that will be terminated first are the ones found at the far right of the task switcher, since those are the ones you have not been using recently.
What that in mind, terminating tasks in the first 1 to 8 icons from the left will most likely make a huge difference, since they will probably still be residing in memory. I see a noticeable difference whenever I terminate any of the first 1 to 8 apps in the task switcher--especially if they are games. Hope this helps.
