Q: Is there an app that creates a system-wide audio equalizer? I like using iTunes' equalizer, but that only works in iTunes.
I'm looking for some software that lets me apply a global, system-wide equalizer to Mac OS X.
The app (or pref pane, etc.) would let me change EQ settings and have that apply to all apps (iTunes, Spotify, Chrome, etc.).
Ideally the software would have some nice presets like iTunes does.
Free preferred, but I'm certainly willing to consider buying something.

A: There's a free method using Soundflower and an Apple Developer Application called AU Lab (you'll need a free Apple Developer account get it, search for "AU Lab" after login). 
Basically:


*

*Install both programs

*Change your audio output to Soundflower in System Preferences

*Open AU Lab and pipe the Soundflower signal to your audio out.

*Apply an AUGraphicEQ filter in AU Lab

*Fiddle with levels to your heart's content.


This solution was taken from a blog post at Dctr Watson. That page also contains better instructions and a startlingly informative comment thread.

A: 
I didn't want to pay to have an equalizer so I developed my own one and giving it away for free! Click  here to download eqMac!
The app is signed by Apple and works for OSX 10.9 and higher!

A: There is also Hear. It has an equalizer as well as bass boosting.  

Hear greatly improves audio quality in movies and music throughout all of your Mac OS X applications. With Hear, music is richer, movie sound and dialog is clearer and games will blow you out of your chair!  

Try the 30 day demo for Free:  https://www.prosofteng.com/hear/heardemo/



A: Check out Boom, it's quite awesome.

Boom boosts the volume of your Mac at all levels. From boosting the
  volume of your music on iTunes, it boom the YouTube videos playing on
  your web browser. You can now boost the volume of any application
  playing sound or video like QuickTime, Podcasts, Skype, iChat, DVD
  Player, Garageband, iMovie and so on.



A: I use AirFoil, lets me take advantage of AirPlay, and the EQ works for all sound output.

A: Audio Hijack application which is developed by the same company for AirFoil. This is a host application which accept various audio plugins (wide range of prices and audio effects).
This is the setup I have tested with good reliability and effectiveness compared to other applications mentioned above this post (I have tried almost all of them before settled with this one).
Note all these applications have to be system extensions of Mac OS X in order to provide system-wide effects. Thus they are very much dependent on versions of Mac OS X. Mac OS X upgrades bond to break some of them.
Ultimately the best audio enhancement is to have an external DAC through USB port on Mac and a matching quality speaker without any of these audio enhancing applications.

A: Soundflower combined with Element is a good solution. It lets you use the AU and VST Plugins that are integrated already in the macOS.
Works great on 10.13
