Q: How to disable ellipsis autocorrect on macOS? Every time i write ... in a text editor like TextEdit or Coda, Lion has started replacing it with a single Ellipse character, which doesn't encode to HTML. This started after I upgraded to Lion and happens across multiple programs. This persists in the latest Big Sur betas.
Any idea how to stop it?

A: On older OS X, you could see and disable this autocorrection, but now the interface is similar but you have to add this entry to manage it.

Make three periods generate three periods. Also look for app settings like smart quotes and dashes. Those can really be bad when writing code.
The official term for this is “Create text replacements” and you have to add the ones you prefer like I have shown...

*

*https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/replace-text-punctuation-documents-mac-mh35735/mac

A: It is a system-wide feature for text input, I guess it comes for free in Cocoa, maybe someone knows better.
To disable it right click in a text box (or open the Edit menu) and go to Substitutions and disable Smart Dashes (the dashes features also transforms -- to an en dash —.) You can also enable the Substitutions window from there if you need to toggle settings on a frequent basis.
The setting seems to be on a per document (or text box?) basis


A: Go to System Preferences, select Language & Text, then the Text tab, and deselect the box for that option.

Or you can disable the feature completely by deselecting the box at the top.

A: In Mavericks at least, this seems to be controlled by the "Use smart quotes and dashes" feature found in System Preferences → Keyboard → Text. Uncheck the box, and the behavior goes away, even in Evernote.


A: If "Smart Quotes" is active in Keyboard Settings but you don't want smart ellipses, Edit menu in most applications on OS X Yosemite, unchecking "Smart Dashes" found in Edit -> Substitutions -> Show Substitutions stops autocorrect of three periods to ellipsis.

A: Press CmdZ immediately after a text substitution to undo it.
