Q: How do I migrate an expired Mobile Me account to iCloud? I had a Mobile Me account which expired before iCloud was announced.  I want to migrate this account to iCloud rather than signing up for a new iCloud account with a different email address.  Is this possible?  If so, how?
When I try to login at www.iCloud.com with my old Mobile Me ID I get the error below:  

If I click 'Get Started' I'm redirected to www.me.com to login to my old account where I get the message below:
 
When I click on 'Learn More' I get directed to a support page which just says I can migrate from Mobile Me by visiting www.me.com/move but this just gives me the same result as above.
Has anyone managed to move an expired Mobile Me account to iCloud?  If so, how did you do it?

A: This article from Apple Support answers some commonly-asked questions related to the Mobile Me to iCloud transition. This article from Apple Support explains how to move to iCloud. From this article we read the following:

Inactive and expired MobileMe accounts do not need to move to iCloud.
  Simply use your inactive or expired account to sign up for an iCloud
  account and follow the onscreen instructions

This article lists some additional troubleshooting issues with accounts and iCloud. It is important to note that the number one troubleshooting issue mentioned is iCloud outages. As it has been mentioned on this thread, iCloud is being hit pretty hard today on its official launch day. From the article: 

Check System Status to make sure there are no outages or scheduled
  maintenances currently affecting your iCloud account. System Status is
  displayed at the iCloud Support web site.

The "Lean More" link on the original question (above) is the same link as the first one I include on this answer. If some of these links are not working in your area, it may be a matter of waiting for the pages to propagate across Apple's worldwide servers (and their backbone providers). The links work within the US. It also worth mentioning that more articles are literally being made available by the hour. In other words, There is a chance the some of these links will not work immediately for you, but they eventually should. Hope this helps. 

A: I could not migrate via the web site either, but I managed to do it once I got 10.7.2 installed on my Mac. I then used my expired MobileMe account as the Apple ID to log into iCloud with (from within the Mac dialog that showed up on first boot after the update). It was then reactivated and migrated to iCloud automatically. I expect it would work the same way from iOS 5.

A: It's been a nightmare for me too... but suddenly while reading an article. Just follow these steps:
1. Go to System Preferences
2. Launch MobileMe preferences pane
3. Sign out of your MobileMe account
4. Leave the pane
5. Launch iCloud pane..
Now you can sign in with your 'expired' MobileMe account and use your cool @me.com email for free via iCloud!

A: Although I was unable to revive an old, very old, almost forgotten, @me.com on my MacBook, I was able to do it on my iPhone. Even though it already had a different iCloud address etc. set up. After I turned mail on, it asked me if I wanted to create a new @iCloud email address too.
Settings>Mail, Contacts, Calendars>Add Account...>iCloud
