Q: Can I put Newsstand into a folder? In iOS5 (and later) my newsstand icon will not go into a folder on either my iPod touch, or my iPad2. Anyone have any suggestions on how to move this application?

A: I've put in the last screen, all alone, so I never have to see that

A: If you don't mind Jailbreaking your device, several apps allow this. One such app is NoNewsIsGoodNews which runs as an application.
http://opinionativereviewer.com/archives/3683

A: Actually, you can put Newsstand into a folder- from Mac or Windows. Just install
StifleStand (free)
It's really a simple application and does not require a jailbreak. I've just tested it from an iPod touch 4th gen and it really "just works".  However, note that tapping Newsstand once its in its folder causes it Springboard to crash (as mentioned by above answers).  This could be useful for a little SpringBoard restart for those who don't want to jailbreak!

A: Looks like there is a way after all (even if it's most probably a bug because it renders Newsstand useless):
From The Coding Massacre:


*

*Take two apps and go to create a folder

*The second the apps are in the folder and it’s doing the folder creation animation, drag Newsstand into the folder

*As long as you’re quick enough Newsstand will go into the folder


If you open Newsstand while it’s in a folder your springboard will crash. 

A: Newsstand behaves as a folder itself.  In the same way as you cannot nest folders within folders, Newsstand cannot be placed inside any other folder.  
As a side note, jailbreaking makes folder nesting possible.
You can actually get it in a folder by making a new folder and very quickly placing it in as a third item, but launching newsstand from within a folder usually causes things to crash in the phone. Furthermore, the system cleans this up when it notices it - so you have a very short term win in terms of getting newsstand in to another folder.
Until this changes in the OS - the safest thing is to move it out of sight.

A: With the latest iOS 7, you can place Newsstand in a folder without having to buy apps or jailbreak your device. 

A: Just install the new iOS 7 (free from Apple via iTunes).
Jailbreaking and similar "hacking" procedures usually cause more problems than they promise to solve...
