Q: Merge e-mail addresses on iCloud I have made a mistake. I'm a developer and while testing iCloud I made an @me.com (let's call it dummy@me.com) account. Now I am setting up iCloud on all my devies and would like to use my original Apple ID which I use my Gmail for.
To use Notes and Mail in iCloud I need a @me.com mail and I would like to use the one I made earlier (dummy@me.com) but I am told this e-mail is already registered - that's true, it's mine. My original Apple ID has another @me.com e-mail attached to it (let's call it placeholder@me.com).
Does anyone know if there is a way to delete dummy@me.com and recreate it on my original Apple ID or attach it to my original Apple ID?

A: Despite some positive reports in September, it looks like you won't be able to merge Apple IDs.
You can, however, set up iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad, Mac or PC to use two different accounts for iCloud and purchases:

iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch:
When you first set up your iOS 5 device, enter the Apple ID you want
  to use with iCloud. If you skipped the setup assistant, sign in to
  Settings > iCloud and enter the Apple ID you’d like to use with
  iCloud. In Settings > Store, sign in with the Apple ID you want to use
  for store purchases (including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match).
  You may need to sign out first to change the Apple ID.
Mac:
Enter the Apple ID you want to use for iCloud in Apple () menu >
  System Preferences > iCloud.  Enter the Apple ID you want to use for
  store purchases (including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match) in
  iTunes > iTunes Store.
PC:
Enter the Apple ID you want to use for iCloud in Control Panel >
  Network > Internet > iCloud.  Enter the Apple ID you want to use for
  store purchases (including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match) in
  iTunes > iTunes Store.

Note: You can switch the Apple ID you use for
    store purchases at any time. However, you can only change the account
    you use for any iTunes in the Cloud features once every 90 days. See
    this article for more information.


