Q: Why is the Location Services icon always present? I updated my iPhone 4 to iOS 5 last night. In iOS 4, the purple GPS arrow appeared next to the battery indicator when an app I was using (or had running in the background) was actively accessing my location data. Now, it seems to be on all the time, even when I have no apps running. 
Does this icon now simply denote the fact that I have Location Services turned on, instead of notifying me that they are being used (like it used to)? 

A: Ah - I fiddled around with a few different apps and discovered that Foursquare was the culprit. When Foursquare's new Radar feature is on, it is always using your location data, even when the app itself is not running. I've turned it off for now, since I don't want it running my battery down unnecessarily. 

A: It's a new feature in ios 5 called "region Monitoring"
The reason it's active even if the app is closed is that this feature runs in iOS 5 core and notifies all apps that are registered when they have entered or left a specific geo-fence.
Reminders does that when you use a location based reminder.
Although the location icon appears at all time. This actually has very minimal impact on the battery due to apple really optimizing this feature by using cell and wifi mostly.

A: Since it's a new iOS 5 feature, I'll add some information (even though it's not your problem).  

Starting with iOS 5, you can ask the system to notify you when your location is being used.
You can find the relevant options in Preferences > Location Services > System Services.
There you can choose iOS 5 services that are allowed to geolocate:


*

*Cell Network Search

*Compass Calibration

*Diagnostics & Usage

*Location-Based iAds

*Setting Time Zone

*Traffic


You can also specify whether or not to show the icon in the status bar.
Also, a grey icon in front of an application in Preferences > Location Services means that the app has used your location in the last 24 hours. If the icon is blue, the application is using it right now.

So you could have known right away which app was the culprit.

A: My location services icon was always on due to the Setting Time Zone locations service always being active. This is an Apple bug which does not happen on all devices and DOES drain your battery life considerably.
If you want to prove it just turn on the Time Zone locations service and before you put your phone onto charge at night go to Settings > General > Usage and take note of the time since last charged. Then do the same the following night and you will see a dramatic difference.
This is a known bug which Apple intend to fix in the near future but anyone who says Location Services does not drain the the battery in your iPhone quicker does not know what they are talking about. This service is only used if you want your phone to update its time zone when you travel to different countries. Which you can do by switching it on for a short period when you get to your destination, let the time update then turn it back off again.

A: I was same problem 
I just done reset all setting from general 
That's it it is gone
