Q: What tiny thing in iOS 5 makes you smile, or has caught you off guard? iOS 5 is here! Geofencing, new Voices in Voice Command/Siri, and Notification Center for all!
We all know how heartfelt iOS makes you seem (Cards), how much control it gives you for managing your network (Airport Utility), and how it will easily turn you into a stalker (Find Your Friends), but what about all the day-in and day-out things that truely make the upgrade process worth it?
Please post only one tip per answer, and check to see if your answer has already been posted - duplicate answers will be deleted. To search answers for this question use inquestion:27761 (or inquestion:this, while viewing this question specifically) in addition to your search terms in the search box in the upper right hand corner of this page.

A: Siri can be activated at the lock screen without a passcode
You can use Siri to call, text, and email from the lock screen without a passcode.
Didn't make me smile, but caught me off guard.
Luckily, you can disable Siri at the lock screen by going to Settings-> General-> Passcode Lock turning the Siri switch to Off.

A: Speak to me (not related to Siri)
One new feature I haven't seen mentioned much is that you can now add a 'Speak' option to every text selection popup, so you can read SMSes or web pages. You can turn it on in the Settings -> General -> Accessibility.
Works on all devices on all selectable text.


A: Usage shows how much space each app is using
Settings -> General -> Usage
iOS 5 now collects the space used by apps and the data in the app - sorted by the largest size. If you need to free up some space quickly, this is a great way to easily identify and remove the largest burdens on your storage space.



Of specific tiny note, the edit button in the top right allows you to delete selective content from apps like Music.


A: Additional "Clear Skies at Night" Icons in Weather.app
When in 12 hour forecast mode, or when it is the night time, there are new icons in the forecast area that resemble a starry sky, as opposed to a daytime sun, indicating clear weather.



A: Swiping right when reading e-mail displays message list in portrait mode on iPad
You no longer have to reach for the top left button to show that list.
If you do not wind up selecting a message, a simple swipe left in the message content pane, not in the folder/message list, will retract it.

A: Find My Friends
For parents of a teenager, this is a great way to track where the kids are. 
The ability to remove the app or remove 'friends' can be restricted with parental restrictions. This combo alone is worth getting the kid an iPhone. 
"I see you're 1 mile from Home Depot. Please get me a box of 2" drywall screws." Creepy. I know. But we got used to caller ID quick enough. 

A: In-app Download Progress Indicators
Podcasts that are downloading are shown in the Music app with a circular completion icon that fills clockwise until the download completes at the 12 o'clock mark.
This may also apply to albums/songs.


A: Retractable Keyboard in Messages.app
The neat way that you can scroll down on iMessages and it pulls the keyboard down with your finger.


A: Pause a Timer
I really like the pause button for timers in Clocks.app. A tiny little thing, but so much nicer than having to change the timer to the nearest minute, and restart.

A: Undo Close Tab
In Safari on the iPad, tap and hold the [+] button to display a list of recently closed tabs instead of creating a new empty tab.

A: Keyboard shortcuts
I wanted this for a long time.


A: Long track titles, artist names, album names scroll to display the full title
In the example below, the full title of the song is "One Sunday Morning (Song for Jane Smiley's Boyfriend".


A: 12 Hour, Hour-by-Hour forecast
When viewing Weather.app, simply tapping on the screen/6 day forecast will slide the days downward, and reveal a 12 hour, hour-by-hour forecast!
Note also that "Hourly" illuminates underneath the city name when in this mode.



A: Read those long song titles and artist/album names
You can tap and hold on a song/podcast title to get a pop-up of the entire description.


A: Swipe Camera to view Photo Roll
When Camera.app is open, and you want to quickly view your previously taken photos instead, don't hit the photo button in the bottom left, simply swipe the screen from left-to-right and you will go in descending date-taken order through your Camera Roll.
Note that you cannot do this if your phone is locked and you used the 'quick camera' method, except for photos taken in that session.

This screenshot was taken mid-swipe (which is rather difficult to do). Note the Camera.app interface on the right half, and a familiar partial screenshot on the left.

A: Good Vibrations
Custom vibration patterns! (Turn them on in Accessibility; tap them out in Sounds; set them by contact in Contacts).
http://9to5mac.com/2011/06/09/ios-5-know-when-wife-is-calling-by-customizing-vibration-patterns/

A: Maps.app now features alternate routes
When getting directions that encompass a long distance that may have multiple highway routes, you will be able to choose 'Route 1' or 'Route 2' after searching the addresses, and before hitting start. Tapping on the 'Route 1'/'Route 2' tooltips will change the color for that route (light blue/dark blue) and also update the estimated distance and time in the header bar.



A: Alternative Shutter Button
I love that you can use the volume up button to take a photo. This is great in landscape mode.
Also if you are using Apple's headphone or any headphone that compatible with iOS, using the volume + button from the headphone also can take a photo for you, this is great for remote shutter !

A: Easily view a location in a calendar event
The Location field in a Calendar event links to Maps.app provided there is enough information for the data detector to recognize it as an address.

A: You can actually backspace on the numbers you enter in Calculator, instead of having to clear them all. 
Just swipe horizontally on the numbers on the display: it will remove the last entered number.
Pretty nifty.

A: Double tap screen in camera video mode to change aspect ratio to widescreen.  I have yet to confirm, but this may only work on the iPhone 4S.

A: Split keyboard on the iPad
Just pull the keyboard apart with your thumbs. The Hide Keyboard button (bottom right) can now be used to reposition the split keyboard on the screen. It takes some getting used to but it can be handy for typing whilst holding the iPad in your hands.


A: Draggable Recipients
You can drag and drop recipients between To, Cc and Bcc in Mail app.


A: Swipe Individual Notifications
My favorite mini-feature yet: you can swipe any notification on the lock screen.
This will remove the lock and proceed to the relevant app. 


A: Third Party Audio Apps Can Publish Song Data to Lock Screen / Multitasking Bar
In previous versions of iOS, the lock screen and multitasking bar would simply show the app name that's playing music. But now, if supported in the app/implemented by the developer, full Artist, Album, and Title information can be shown instead.


Note the non-Music.app icon in the multitasking bar.

A: Dictionary
Word definitions from text selections.



A: Photo Edit Rotation
In the Photos app, you can rotate by any degree, not just at specific intervals, by pressing crop and then using two fingers to rotate the image.

A: Landscape Orientation Lock on the iPhone
On the iPhone you can lock the orientation into Landscape by doing this once:


*

*Going to Settings.app → General → Accessibility

*Setting Triple Click Home (the bottom setting) to AssistiveTouch


Then when you want to set orientation lock:


*

*Enable Portrait Orientation Lock from the multitasking/app-switcher bar

*Triple press the home button

*Press the white circle that appears

*Press Device

*Rotate Screen

*Choose which orientation to lock to.

*Press the home button 3 times again to get rid of the white circle/overview.


An annoyingly overlong but sometimes useful ability, that should have implemented by default.

A: View third-party app art at Lock Screen exclusively
When using an app that publishes song information/cover art to the lock screen (e.g. Music.app, Spotify), you can tap anywhere on the Lock Screen except an actual lock screen element (bars, unlock slider, etc.) to hide all of the lock screen's bars and other information in order to have a clean picture of nothing but the cover art, taking the place of your lock screen wallpaper.
While playing music via Spotify, the lock screen normally:

After tapping the background (tapping any of the bar areas will not work):

Note:


*

*This appears to be an iPad-only feature.

*You cannot do this when your normal lock screen wallpaper is shown.


A: In iOS 5.1 you can swipe up on the camera icon in the lock screen to take a photo - most people know that.  However you can also swipe down to re-lock the phone once done with the camera.
via http://www.quora.com/iOS-5/What-are-the-best-new-features-on-iOS-5-users-probably-havent-discovered-yet/answer/Ron-Levy

A: Current Volume Reminder
Switching the phone from Silent mode back to normal now displays the current ringer volume.


A: 6 day forecast in Weather Widget for Notification Center
When in the Notification Center drawer, you can swipe the Current Weather widget in either direction to switch between Current Local Conditions, to the same 6 day forecast you would see in Weather.app. Saves a ton of time!




A: MobileSafari, Mobile Reader
The Reader button in Mobile Safari address bar.
It displays a page not entirely suited for mobile in an easy to read, black-and-white format.  It removes all of the extraneous information and focuses on the body text.


EDIT: Something new I noticed recently, if the article has a link such as "Continued on page 2...", the Reader will automatically load the additional pages, allowing you to scroll through the entire article without leaving the Reader.

A: Ability to edit the colours of Exchange calendars
Finally, I can make the colours of each Exchange calendar consistent, without needing to buy a Mac, to use iCal!
To change the colours:


*

*Click on the Calendars button

*Click on Edit

*Click on the ">" button next to a calendar

*Pick the Colour of your choice...



A nice extra touch is that if you use a 3rd-party calendar app, such as Informant HD, the same colours are used there too.

A: Additional Data in Calendar when Rotated
Calendar.app when the iPhone is rotated in landscape mode displays a week mode. 
Horizontal scroll iterates through days.
Vertical scroll iterates through hours. 

A: Emoji for everybody!
Emoji is now a keyboard that can be used by anybody, where prior to iOS 5 it would only be enabled by the use of a Softbank (Japanese Cell Phone Carrier) SIM card in your device, or via special tricks that certain applications would perform.
Enable it by going into Settings -> General -> Keyboard -> International Keyboards -> Add New Keyboard, then scroll about 1/3rd of the way down and tap 'Emoji'.
Emoji are cute little detailed picture icons. These icons can only generally be seen on Apple computers, iPhone users, or most Japanese Cell Phones (albeit they will look quite a bit different on those).


A: Double tapping the home button on the lock screen shows you both media controls, and a camera icon to the right of the unlock swiping track. Not only is the Camera available from the lock screen, but as soon as you push the home button, it whisks you right back to the lock screen. So nobody can get into your iPhone without unlocking it.


A: More convenient "Find On Page" searching
I just noticed that when you're in Safari, and you click in the Search box at the top-right, the keyboard has a new "Find on Page" box, that is much more convenient than the old iOS 4 way of searching.

Edit: 20/10/2011
The Pad Gadget page iPad Quick Tip – Find Text and Keywords in Mobile Safari shows a screenshot from the iOS 4 days. Notice how the "On this page" bit appears after it's searched the Web. My point is that the iOS 5 way is more obvious, and more convenient.

A: Mass Mark as Read/Unread/Flag
You can now mark multiple emails as Read/Unread from the edit mode in Mail without having to open each message.


A: Ringtones (can) Serve Double Duty as Notification Tones
Ringtones that are less than 15 seconds will also show up in the the various other notification types. 
New (SMS) Message, Calendar Alerts, Tweet Sent, etc. They can even be defined as the SMS tone for a specific contact in your Address Book.

A: Rename Your iOS Device
I can change my iPod's name without using a computer. 
Silly I know, but I can.
Settings.app > General > About > Name




A: Bluetooth Volume Control, and Bluetooth Text Display
Simply that the volume control on my stereo bluetooth headphones now actually controls the volume of my iPod Touch - AND the currently playing track is displayed on the Bluetooth module. Looks like they've sorted that one good and proper!

A: Unified Single Caller Log
I'm not sure when this happened, but I only just noticed it, but when viewing the recent calls list, of you click the little arrow next to the caller name on the right, you get a detailed list of the relevant calls.  This was there before, but only showed completed calls, not is shows cancelled calls where you hung up before receiving an answer or voicemail.  Using for proving you tried to call, although it won't show "call failed", it will show cancelled in it's place where a call did actually fail, like for me earlier today...


A: Quickly access most recent draft email
Hold the compose button to bring up the most recent draft email
(via http://obamapacman.com/2012/02/how-to-quickly-save-access-saved-mail-draft-on-iphone-ipad-ipod-touch/)

A: Ghost Buttons on the iPad's Split Keyboard
Many have complained about the split keyboard not matching their natural finger choice for the middle letters (TY / GH / VB), but as it turns out, those keys all exist on the both sides of the keyboard. Want to hit Y with your left finger? Do it, it's there, and it's really wide too, easily 3 buttons wide. Want to hit V with your right finger? Do it, same rules apply. It's really amazingly well done.
Hat tip to Finer Things in iOS:


A: Multi-touch gestures on iPad

*

*Pinch to close app

*Swipe up with four fingers to show the app switcher

*Swipe left/right with four fingers to switch between running apps

I'm finding number 3 less useful so far but 1 and 2 are becoming second nature.

A: Notifications allows control over badge counts
If you prefer icons to be clean and without status - specifically in apps like Mail, notifications allows fine grained control over displaying a badge or not.


A: You can send and receive iPhone FaceTime calls via email addresses
This is nothing new to iPod touch or iPad users, but up until iOS 5 iPhone users could only send or receive FaceTime calls with their phone number. Now you can add one or more email addresses to the FaceTime section in Settings to enable people to FaceTime you at those addresses. You can also configure the Caller ID to be either the phone number or any of the email addresses - useful to prevent people you FaceTime with from getting your phone number.
You also have the same flexibility with iMessage as well, the ability to send and receive messages from either your phone number of any number of email addresses.
 

A: More dash types
Tap and hold the dash on the keyboard now gives an en–dash (in addition to the -hyphen, em—dash and bullet •). Not very useful but it made me smile :–)

A: iForgot My Password
When signing into the App Store, the "forgot password" button is labelled "iForgot":


A: LED Flash on Alerts
I use this in combination with vibrate to wake myself and not the other half.
Settings > General > Accessibility > LED Flash for Alerts
Works best with a transparent or semi transparent cover, ie. they glow with the phone lying flat on a table.

A: Private Browsing Mode for MobileSafari
MobileSafari now has a private browsing mode, turn it on and off under Settings -> Safari. Additionally, it's chrome turns black when Private Browsing is on.
Useful so you can buy your wife presents without her finding out.

A: Lock Camera Exposure+Focus
To keep Camera exposure & focus LOCKED at where you want it, tap the screen & HOLD it until the box pulses.
via @Photojojo

A: You can now delete individual items in your call history
When viewing your call history, you can hit "edit" in the upper right and delete individual items from your call history.

via @negrino

A: The Immortal Newsstand
Newsstand caught me off guard, but then in a bad way. It caught me off guard because I was not expecting Apple to add a feature I cannot remove or even move to another folder without "cheating".

A: iMessage supports animated gifs!
But unfortunately as of iOS 5.0.1 only animated within the message bubble - it is not animated when you tap/select the image to view full screen.

A: Music fades in volume but continues to play when a phone call is received — this appears to be added in iOS 5.1.
