Q: How can I take a larger screenshot on my iPhone? I would like to take a screenshot of an entire web page in Mobile Safari, not just the part that's visible on the screen. I'm running iOS 5 on an iPhone 4, but I'm pretty sure this functionality isn't built in anywhere. What app or trick do I need?

A: Natively available in iOS 13 and later
This functionality is now built into iOS 13 by Apple. Safari running in iOS 13 lets you screenshot the entire webpage as a single continuous image.
To do that, open the desired webpage in Safari, and simply take a screenshot as you would normally do on your device, and tap on the thumbnail shown immediately shown towards the bottom left.
You'll be presented with two options at the top in a segmented control:

*

*Screen
and


*Full Page
 
With the Full Page item selected, tap on the Share icon in the top right to share the capture via desired medium. AirDropping it for instance, exports a single PDF file, which can be easily exported into a desired image format.


A: Webshot Free can do this (there's a 99¢ ad-free version too). It's supposed to let you just change http:// to webshot:// and it will open the same URL in in the app. That didn't work, but cut+paste did.
There may be other apps which are better for certain needs, depending on what you want to actually do with the page. If you just want a JPG or PNG of it, Webshot Free works fine.
If you are trying to save a page for reading later, iCab Mobile ($2, universal) will let you save a .webarchive or a .pdf file. [Note: the print to pdf function is actually provided by 3rd party webapps, but it's integrated into iCab].
There are a variety of "Print to PDF" apps in the app store, PrintBureau, seems to be one of the better ones (and is universal).

A: This question has been asked on StackOverflow.
Webpage Capture ($2.39, demo, confirmed on SO) or Website Screenshot ($0.99) should do the trick.
I have not tested any of them.

As a side note: since Safari for Mac itself doesn't do full page export*, it really doesn't come as a surprise there's no way to do so on iOS.
*yes, of course you can print as PDF, but that's completely different from saving a full-dimensioned, not-paginated, not-styled-for-print version of the website (for which a third-party app such as LittleSnapper is necessary)

A: Tailor (App Store link) is a free app that does this extremely easily by detecting sequential screenshots in your iOS device’s Photos and stitching them together automatically. 

A: It's not ideal obviously, but if you need a shot of the page exactly as it appears on the phone, your best bet is to scroll around the page, taking a series of screen shots and manually stitch them together on a PC.
Printing to a PC as a PDF is an alright idea, as is setting your desktop Safari to send the iPhone user-agent, but neither will give you perfect renderings of what it looks like on the iPhone, often there will be substantial formatting differences.

A: Webpage Capture for iPhone | iPad
From the iTunes description:

Webpage Capture enables you to take a screenshot of the complete
  webpage you are browsing. You can then save it, email it or share it
  on Social networks like Facebook, Twitter and Flickr. Saving as PDF
  enables you to archive your files and access them for off-line reading
  and for record-keeping.
This version also enables you to export pdf files to iBooks,
  Evernote...and any other app you have for reading pdf files.
The app captures the complete webpage whether visible or not as an
  image instead of HTML. This is useful for keeping track of pages
  visited, keeping a log of dynamic pages, for storing information (eBay
  auctions, digital magazine, digital newspapers...) or for later
  reading or for sharing with somebody somewhere that cannot access a
  webpage. 
The screenshot can be saved on the device itself and can also be
  transferred via iTunes File Share.



A: *

*Launch Mobile Safari on devices running iOS5. 

*Type the URL of the website of interest.

*After the web page is done loading, touch the gray Reader "button"
to the right of the URL address.

*Mobile Safari is now in "Reader" mode (note the purple text color), select the  icon and choose "Mail this Article". Provide a valid email address.  The entire web page
(photos, text, etc) including portions not visible or not displayed
will be appended into the email message you're composing.

*Launch your email browser to verify. This is necessary because some websites may not render properly because they use frames, etc. Furthermore, the Reader function will not capture animated gifs, Flash animation, movies, and sounds.

