Q: Is there a tabbed PDF reader for Mac OS X? I am looking for a tabbed PDF reader, preferably with annotation support (highlighting mostly) for Mac OS X. I looked at the Skim FAQ which said that tabs would never come to Skim.
I am currently writing where I need to have multiple PDFs open for reference (at the moment 17). This is a lot of windows which clutters upp my Exposé.
Does anybody know if such a PDF reader exists for Mac OS X?
I have had a look at Adobe Acrobat Reader, Skim, Preview.app, PDF Pen.
I found Dioretsa which has tabs, but no sadly no annotation.
Update 2015-11-20: Funny how history repeats itself. PDF Expert recently released a Mac version (Readdle's PDF Expert for iOS has been around for some time). The pase years I have been using Preview, but PDF Expert is now my goto PDF reader with tabs and annotation. It's fast as well (which cannot be said about Adobe's PDF products).
Update 2012-05-16: Saving annotations in the PDF itself is also a must. E.g. Skim and Mendeley do not do this. Otherwise, Mendeley would have been a good choice.

A: Two years later, I may have found something. There is now an app on the Mac App Store called PDF Reader X. It's free, has tabs and supports annotation!

A: Clearview Reader from Canoe Software looks really promising. I liked their free app, PDFNut, which also supports tabbed browsing, bookmarks, and annotations. Clearview Reader has more features and for the very reasonable price of $7 I'm more than happy to support the developers.

A: It's certainly not the primary function of the program, but what about Safari? It displays and renders PDFs. It doesn't handle annotations natively, but there are Safari extensions like Coda Notes that add the ability to annotate.
Alternately, your web browser of choice could be used similarly.

A: Admittedly, this isn't quite ideal, but…
Preview.app has a kind of tab-like behavior in the sidebar when you open multiple PDFs simultaneously, either by dragging them all to to the icon at once, opening multiple files using shift in the open dialog, or by dragging additional PDFs into the sidebar of an already open document.
Once opened this way, you can switch between documents with option-page up/down, which maintains your position in each document.

A: Mac's own Preview actually works really well when working with multiple documents. I would even say that it's better than the tabbed approach (I tried both MightPDF and PDFNut) as I would often work with 15 or so PDFs all opened, resulting in tabs that no longer display any coherent information. The thumbnail on the side approach of Preview allows me to scroll through and easily locate the document I want. 
Also, any annotations made will stick if you go to the print menu then on the bottom left corner, change to "Save as PDF…"

A: You should look at 'Mendeley' which is primarily a Dropbox for the scientific Community. The Mendeley Desktop Application has an integrated PDF-Viewer which supports  PDF-Display in Tabs, Text-Highlites and Notes. In the Screenshot you see two PDF's open in the Tabs and i have highlighted some Text at random. 
The Desktop Software is free and you get 500 MB Space for sharing, like Dropbox you can  expand that space with a premium (paid) Account.
 

A: You can configure Preview to open all files in the same window. Then you move between them with the keyboard (ALT+UP, ALT+DOWN). If you use the "content table" view for the sidebar it's the same as tabs but displayed in a vertical row. 

A: Check out Scrivener, the writing program. It doesn't use a "tab" metaphor, but it supports PDFs and several other document formats, and is quite good at displaying lots of documents and windows of information simultaneously and enabling you to switch around between them and reorder them while you are writing. It uses its own metaphors for organizing documents, patterned after flash cards and cork boards. You should try it out.

A: They support tabs now (2017):


*

*Adobe Acrobat Reader DC 

*PDF Pen


A: As of MacOS High Sierra (10.13), Preview can display different PDF documents (and other image file types) as Tabs.
