Q: How can I change Fn keys usage based on application? I would like to know if there is any application that can enable you use use Fn keys differently based on the current application.
For example in terminal or you favourite IDE you want to use them as standard function keys but for other applications you want to keep the default Apple keys.

A: Fluor is a relative newcomer to this space that does exactly what you want:

Fluor is a tool that allows you to automatically change the behaviour of the keyboard's fn keys depending on the active application.

It is open source, works on macOs Sierra and is actively developed (as of March 2017).

A: There is an app - FNable - that can help you (works with El Capitan as well).
It can switch Fn keys based on app or using a shortcut.
It is no longer available on App Store, so here is their website: https://fnable.com/

A: FunctionFlip might be what you're looking for.

FunctionFlip's purpose is simply to disable the special features — rewind, play, mute, etc. — on the function keys. For example, if you "flip" F7, F8, and F9, those keys — only those keys — will revert back to normal F keys. Press the fn key with the special key to get the special function back. That is, the "special" and "normal" functions are flipped.
To assign a custom shortcuts to your reclaimed keys, use a program like Quicksilver or Keyboard Maestro.


A: Palua will do exactlly what you need.

Introducing Palua, the easy way to quickly switch the mode of your Function Keys on any Mac keyboard!
You need to run a game, or start a graphic application, or work on a
  project that need F1-F12 as function keys, just hit option+command+TAB
  and the switch will happen.
Smart Mode: Key mode changes with the application that has the focus.


A: I don't know what keys you need, but for me the easiest solution was to use all of them as standard function keys amnd using bowtie with global shortcuts to keep F7-F12 as media keys, while having F1-F6 as standard function keys.

A: I've been using Palua for about a decade.  It left the app store about the time Apple was cracking down on some apps that they felt violated allowed scope of action.  Fortunately, I've been able to copy it from one machine to the next.  As of Feb 2023, It also works on my 2022 MBP running Monterrey 14.3.  I'm glad to hear there may be other options, but this has really been bulletproof across the years, OS, and machines.
The one glitch happened last night:  I had an error on 2013 MBA 10.14 saying it was corrupted and asking me to reinstall.  I copied from my desktop and it's working again.  I did have to put in my Apple ID and password, but it authenticated even though it's no longer downloadable from that source.
