Q: Is there an app that allows me to monitor time spent using an application? Is there a tool that allows you to monitor the amount of time spent actively interacting with an application? This would be useful for development work to get an idea of just how long projects take.
EDIT:
I've been using RescueTime as it tracks apps, catagorises them based on productivity levels, and also looks at web pages visited.

A: The application Time Sink ($5, Many Tricks) tracks the amount of time you spend in each application (and each window within an application).

A: Timing helps in tracking time spent in applications (and their windows) as well. It's similar to Time Sink but seems to provide more grouping and reporting options.

A: TimeEdition is an application that I just found. I haven't used it yet, but it's free. However, it doesn't have as many features as Time Sink.

A: macOS Catalina might bring Screen Time as in iOS to Mac too.

Usage reports Screen Time creates usage reports that show you how much
time is being spent on your Mac, which apps are used most and how many
notifications are received. With iCloud, Screen Time combines all your
usage information and syncs Downtime settings and App Limits across
iPhone, iPad and Mac.
Downtime With Screen Time: you can schedule
downtime so you (or your child) can only use specific apps you’ve
approved.
App Limits With App Limits you can set the amount of time
you want to use your apps and websites. Set App Limits for total time,
categories or specific apps.
Combined Limits Create combined limits
with a combination of app categories, specific apps or websites.
One More Minute When a limit is met, you can tap “one more minute” to give
you time to quickly save your work or wrap up a conversation.

emphasis and some punctuation mine.
https://www.apple.com/in/macos/catalina/features/

A: Time Sink seems to do this job — a job that I find useless —, and costs only 5 little dollars.
Tictoc keeps track of time spent in tasks, rather than in applications. Which starts to be a little more useful.

A: Apps Usage is an app for Mac users, who want to know, how much time they spent on each used application.
