Q: iOS 5 Reminders on weekdays only Is it possible to create repeating reminders for weekdays only?  I don't see this option, but I can't believe something so basic would be left off.

A: Add Calendar event for weekdays only by selecting Every Week, then Custom, which will then allow you to click which days of the week you want.  Once select, M-F, it will confirm you selected every weekday.  It will then show up as Custom on your Calendar event.

A: The only way to create custom reminder time is by Siri.  I managed to created an event to remind me every 3 days.  I haven't figure out how to create one on weekdays only.  In the mean time, I just create an alarm as above post suggested.

A: How about creating a reminder on monday, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, and friday, with each one repeating weekly? You'll have to make five edits instead of just one whenever something changes, but maybe the event details won't change enough and this workaround will suffice.

A: In Reminders.


*

*Select Repeat

*Select Weekly

*Select Custom

*Select the days, e.g. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday


A: I already saw this answer, but this may help find that custom option it's not immediately obvious: On calendar, choose repeat.  In repeat chose custom, then choose weekly, then select Monday-Friday.   You'll see 5 check marks 
Another example of custom use is to get a meeting for every selected day of the week and week of the month, say every 3rd Thursday.  Select custom repeat, choose monthly, then "on the" gives the default choice of a date, but click the arrow and you get the choice on the 1st, 2nd, etc Mon Tues etc

A: If you have an iPhone 4S, or newer, ask Siri to create the reminder for weekdays.  She can do it.



A: The easiest way to setup a weekday (Monday-Friday) reminder using the Reminders app for iOS is to open Siri as others have mentioned and say "REMIND ME WEEKDAYS AT 2PM (whatever time you want obviously)." 
Siri when then ask you what you want to be reminded about which is when you provide the title of your reminder.  
After you confirm the reminder it will save and if done correctly you'll notice the reminder will say "custom repeat".
If you edit the reminder you will lose your custom repeat so do not make changes after creating the reminder with Siri.
Hope that helps!  

A: I am an app developer working with Reminders, and this kind of this is possible on the underlying APIs. The Reminder app is quite bare bones in its functionality.  I think this is intentional.
I realize this may not help your immediate situation, but the more I work with Reminders, the more I think that apple has intentionally made Reminders pretty basic, because they are hoping app developers will create the kind of functionality you are looking for, in custom apps.
Unfortunately, at this stage not many developers seem to be taking up that challenge, each preferring do do reminders/timers/todo list in their own separate universes.
What you want could be done, but someone would need to make an app to do it.

A: In Mavericks, I found that there is an easy way to do this in iCal, but it's not obvious. Instead of selecting "Every Day" go to Custom, then select Weekly, and you'll see a list of the 7 weekdays. Choose "Every 1 week(s) on:" then click on MTWTF or any combination of days, and you're all set.
In fact, after you do this, it will say Custom...Every Weekday.

A: Choose "Custom" in repeat section and choose the days of the week for your calendar.
