Q: How does one export all contacts from iCloud? How does one export all contacts from iCloud in some sort of standard format? I would prefer to keep a backup in case my sync goes bad and I'm yet to find a way to export all my contacts. I would hate to lose hundreds of contact details if my sync from the iPhone goes bad.

A: There is an Apple Page, iCloud: How to back up iCloud data that describes the various approaches that you can take, depending on what platform you are on.
As far as I can see, they all depend on having access to a computer!
Edit
For Windows PCs, it says:

Outlook 2007 or Outlook 2010:
Contacts: Export your contact data via Outlook's Export Wizard. For more information, see this article.

The linked article is on the Microsoft website, and describes standard Outlook functionality for exporting contacts.
So basically, yes, you can save all your iCloud contacts on PCs, and the mechanism is documented, so long as you have Outlook.

A: The way that I did this was to use my contacts app, and simply use the  file export function to export the contact list. At any point you can always reimport the file that is produced with this. (I did this AFTER connecting my contacts app with icloud)

A: I just had a massive heart attack after attempting to switch Apple ID accounts...
I originally shared an itunes account with my brother so that we could share apps etc...
But after changing Apple ID's and reconnecting to the cloud, i lost all my contacts...
Luckily they were stored in the Cloud with the old iTunes ID. If you log into iCloud and select all your contacts on the settings button (bottom left) it says Export vCard. Click this and you can Export all your contact information as a .vcf file which you can then back up onto an external harddrive etc...
Hope this helps!!

A: SmoothSync for Cloud Contacts. $3.74, and 30 seconds to get 358 contacts to my Android phone.

A: This is by far the most useful answer on this topic - and the only one that doesn't involve exporting individual contacts via your web browser and the iCloud web interface.
This is for PC users only.
http://davidvielmetter.com/tricks/importing-icloud-contacts-to-outlook/

A: All else fail method. None of the blogs for the problem of taking contacts from Icloud to Outlook have worked for me!!!! My solution, 
select all (CTRL+A) from contacts
EXPORT VCARD to Windows CONTACTS -->It is found via Comp>Local Disk (C)>Users>Contacts for Windows 7/Vista/XP
Here is why...
It will actually sync to your PC. From there you must SELECT ALL and find the command to export (Through Windows Live not Icloud) Mine came via the arrow on the 2nd to top ribbon.
My advice export to a CSV comma separated values excel sheet.
Onward bound to Outlook> Import Export> Com Sep Values (Windows) [CSV like before] (Windows NOT DOS) You'll F up if you use DOS
If you love me in the one minute and fifteen seconds it takes you to defeat this task...show me some love  ;)>

A: Yes you can copy contacts from iCloud to new mac and then to a new phone. All you have to do is open iCloud , go to setting copy all and export. thats it.
