Q: How do I make Spotlight stop indexing my Backup drive? I have a 2TB external drive I use for Time Machine. At random intervals, it will decide to spin up and my entire UI freezes until it's finished. This is incredibly annoying.
It appears that this is due to Spotlight indexing. They suggest adding the Backup drive to Spotlight's blacklist, so I did:

Am I stuck having to live with constant beach ball attacks?
Update: I've already tried mdutil. It doesn't work.
$ sudo mdutil -E -i off /Volumes/Backup/Backups.backupdb/
Password:
/Volumes/Backup/Backups.backupdb:
    Indexing enabled.

If it's impossible to disable indexing, I would settle for making the backup drive never spin down.

A: Create an empty file on the root of that drive, named .metadata_never_index.  This Mac OS X Hints article says more.

A: Apply it to the volume, not a directory:
sudo mdutil -i off /Volumes/TimeMachine/
Substitute TimeMachine with the name of your backup volume, of course.
For example...
Johns-iMac:~ john$ sudo mdutil -i off /Volumes/Time15/
Password:
/Volumes/Time15:
2015-10-27 12:37:18.436 mdutil[56686:26121199] mdutil disabling Spotlight: /Volumes/Time15 -> kMDConfigSearchLevelFSSearchOnly
    Indexing and searching disabled.

Which does leave the subdirectory reporting as "enabled", but (until proven wrong I understand) the setting at the volume level will override.

A: I finally found you cannot disable Spotlight to index Backups.backupdb. 
Apple Support. OS X El Capitan: Spotlight preferences

If you add a Time Machine backup disk to the privacy list, you will
  continue to see messages that Spotlight is indexing your backup disk.
  This indexing is necessary for Time Machine to function properly and
  can’t be disabled. Spotlight does exclude from searches any items you
  store on your backup disk that are not part of a Time Machine backup.


A: Do it from Terminal via sudo (info courtesy this page):
sudo mdutil -a -i off

You'll also need to supply your admin password.
Similarly, to turn back on:
sudo mdutil -a -i on

Note: Set the items for Spotlight to show at Prefs > Spotlight

A: Time machine requires spotlight indexing activity, but the contents will not pollute search results.  If the goal is to remove redundant search results for a non-Time Machine drive (a CarbonCopyCloner backup for example) then the volume can be simply added to the privacy list under Spotlight preferences.
(The details of the original question indicate it is about Time Machine, but I include this case for those who find this question by the title.)

A: Here's the man page for mdutil:
mdutil(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                

NAME
     mdutil -- manage the metadata stores used by Spotlight

SYNOPSIS
     mdutil [-pEsav] [-i on | off] mountPoint ...

DESCRIPTION
     The mdutil command is useful for managing the metadata stores for mounted volumes.

     The following options are available:

     -p  Spotlight caches indexes of some network devices locally.  This option requests that a local
         caches be flushed to the appropriate network device.

     -E  This flag will cause each local store for the volumes indicated to be erased.  The stores will
         be rebuilt if appropriate.

     -i on | off
         Sets the indexing status for the provided volumes to on or off.  Note that indexing may be
         delayed due to low disk space or other conditions.

     -s  Display the indexing status of the listed volumes.

     -a  Apply command to all volumes.

     -v  Print verbose information when available.

I would use:
mdutil -E -i off [the mountpoint for your backup drive]

