Q: Can I create a bootable DiskWarrior disk? I'm in trouble. My Mac won't boot (frozen on gray apple logo with spinning wheel), and it appears to be a disk problem. I ran disk utility from Lion's recovery disk, but it says it can't repair my disk and that I should erase it.
I want to try diskwarrior, but before buying it I want to know if I can create a bootable disk with the downloadable version. I can't wait for the DVD to ship -- it'd take at least two weeks if not more, and I need it right now.
I searched on alsoft's site and the web, but I don't understand if it's possible or not. I'm guessing it is, otherwise buying this program is useless in case of emergencies (I'd rather get a new Mac than wait for the DVD to ship). 
So the question: has anyone managed to create a bootable diskwarrior disk?

A: you could try DasBoot and create a bootable disk with a USB thumb drive and a running OS, obviously not yours, maybe someone who has a similar OS. DasBoot allows you to install custom apps, and then you can boot from it and repair your disk.
I hope you have a backup. It could be a mechanical problem, which no software in the world can fix.
Do you hear strange noises coming from the HD? Is it a recent model? Maybe you could bring it to a genius bar so they can make sure it is not a mechanical failure or some other problem...

A: Got a reply from the support. What I asked is not possible -- but you could use two alternative methods (in my case I couldn't do that though).

Our licensing agreement with Apple doesn't permit transmitting the
operating system via the internet.

As there are other methods to run the application (as outlined
previously [link]) most folks can run the software using the downloaded application.

Also, DiskWarrior is the type of utility to prevent these problems -
regular maintenance can help prevent the emergency situation.


A: For the future you might want to try installing OS X onto an external hard drive. Then when you have a problem you can always boot up to recover your files.
