Q: Can the fan in an iMac (model 5,1 "Late 2006") be replaced? I have a 21" iMac model identifier imac5,1 (Late 2006). (It's the one with a 2.16 Ghz Intel Core 2 Duo and a max of 4 GB RAM, 3 GB addressable. You know, the white LCD ones)
Starting this weekend after I cleaned it... probably too aggressively... by vacuuming the exhaust slits and air intakes, it is now making a grinding / whirring noise. I suspect is is the case exhaust fan.
The temperature in the iMac seems okay, but I don't push it very hard so I am not sure if it will eventually fail due to heat. I do know that the noise is very annoying. Either way I would like to solve the problem.
Can the fan in an iMac (Late 2006) be replaced? I'm fairly certain it's not user servicable, however I could try it if it's possible without requiring special tools / training. I'd also be happy to pay to have it replaced but I don't even know if this is a service that's available for a 5 year old machine...

A: I don't know about replacing the fan, but with XRG you can monitor your system's temperatures on screen.  smcFanControl lets you tweak your fan speeds; maybe you can use it to dislodge whatever's in there, before you try opening the box.

A: The fan can be replaced. However, as was already pointed out by the OP, Apple's disposable desktops usually do not have that many user-serviceable parts inside.
It can be done by private individuals, or by a service technician, even today, although by now the financial incentives in doing such a thing are strongly on the side of do-it-yourself.
Finding the proper replacement parts might also be not very cost effective.
If anyone wants to attempt this user-unfriendly and difficult procedure, here are the guides to do so:
from ifixit.com:  (since link-only answers are discouraged and also to give anyone a first impression of all the convoluted steps necessary, here is the content of the page for a hard drive fan replacement, quoted without pictures)

iMac Intel 17" Hard Drive Fan Replacement Written By: Walter Galan
  (and 4 other contributors) Difficulty: Difficult
Steps  37  /  Time Required ??
Introduction
Replacing a defective fan is pretty easy and will keep your iMac
  running cool.
Tools Buy these tools Phillips #1 Screwdriver Plastic Cards Spudger
  T10 Torx Screwdriver T6 Torx Screwdriver T8 Torx Screwdriver 
iMac G5 17" 1.9 GHz/iMac Intel 17" (EMC No. 2104/2114) Hard Drive Fan
  $19.95
Step 1 Access Door Loosen the two captive Phillips screws
  securing the access door to the iMac.
Loosen the two captive Phillips screws securing the access door to the
  iMac. Remove the access door from the iMac. Before beginning the
  repair, unplug the computer and press and hold the power switch for
  20-30 seconds, to discharge internal capacitors.  4 comments
Step 2 Front Bezel Remove the following four screws: Remove the
  following four screws: Three 6 mm T8 Torx. One 8 mm T8 Torx.  2
  comments
Step 3 Flip your iMac over and lay it stand-side down on a flat
  surface.
Flip your iMac over and lay it stand-side down on a flat surface. To
  lift the front bezel off the iMac, simultaneously: Use your thumbs to
  press in the RAM arms and hold the iMac down. Use your index fingers
  to pull the small bridge of material on the front bezel toward
  yourself. Pull the Front bezel up with your index fingers. Once the
  small bridge of material has cleared the RAM arms, lift the front
  bezel by its lower edge just enough to clear the bottom edge of the
  rear case.  Add a comment
Step 4 Re-orient your iMac so it sits upright on the stand.
Re-orient your iMac so it sits upright on the stand. Insert a plastic
  card up into the corner of the air vent slot near the top of the rear
  case. Push the card toward the top of the iMac to release the front
  bezel latch. Pull the front bezel away from the rear case. Repeat this
  process for the other side of the front bezel. It may be necessary to
  apply several layers of duct tape to the top of the access card to aid
  in releasing the latches. If the bezel refuses to release, try
  pressing the lower edge back onto the rear case and repeat this
  opening process.  6 comments
Step 5 Lay your iMac stand-side down on a table. Lay your iMac
  stand-side down on a table. Lift the front bezel from its lower edge
  and rotate it away from the rest of your iMac, minding the RAM arms
  that may get caught. Lay the front bezel above the rest of the iMac. 
  One comment
Step 6 If necessary, remove the piece of kapton tape(it is ok to toss
  this) wrapped around the microphone and camera cables. If necessary,
  remove the piece of kapton tape(it is ok to toss this) wrapped around
  the microphone and camera cables.  2 comments
Step 7 Disconnect both the camera and microphone cables.
Disconnect both the camera and microphone cables.  2 comments
Step 8 Display Peel up the lower EMI shield from the rear case. Peel
  up the lower EMI shield from the rear case. It is only necessary to
  peel the shield up from three sides. Leave it attached to the display.
  We have found it helpful to tape the EMI shield against the display to
  keep it out of the way.  Add a comment
Step 9 Remove the two 4.8 mm T6 Torx screws securing the display data
  cable to the logic board.
Remove the two 4.8 mm T6 Torx screws securing the display data cable
  to the logic board. Grab the display data cable connector by its black
  tab and pull it straight up off the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 10 Inverter cable on 24inch iMac pulls off to the left. Inverter
  cable on 24inch iMac pulls off to the left. Pull the inverter cable
  connector straight up off its socket on the logic board.  3 comments
Step 11 Peel back the aluminum EMI tape from the two vertical edges of
  the display. Peel back the aluminum EMI tape from the two vertical
  edges of the display. During reassembly, it is helpful to use several
  small strips of tape to hold the EMI shielding along the left and
  right edges of the display footprint out of the way before lowering
  the display into the rear case of your iMac.  3 comments
Step 12 Allow the EMI shield to hang down from the display.
TOOLS USED ON THIS STEP: TR10 Torx Security Screwdriver $5.95
Allow the EMI shield to hang down from the display. Remove the four 8
  mm with 2 mm thick head coarse-thread T10 Torx screws securing the
  display to the rear case. These screws are recessed, so a thin
  screwdriver such as this is essential for removal. Bit drivers tend to
  be too short for this application. It is strongly recommended to use a
  magnetized screwdriver so the screws won't fall into the iMac.  6
  comments
Step 13 Lift the display from its lower edge and pull it toward
  yourself to peel off the EMI shield attached to its top edge. Lift the
  display from its lower edge and pull it toward yourself to peel off
  the EMI shield attached to its top edge. Be mindful of any cables that
  may get caught during removal.  One comment
Step 14 Speakers Remove the 30 mm T10 Torx screw securing the left
  speaker to the rear case. Remove the 30 mm T10 Torx screw securing the
  left speaker to the rear case.  Add a comment
Step 15 Remove the 17 mm T10 Torx screw from the right speaker. Remove
  the 17 mm T10 Torx screw from the right speaker.  Add a comment
Step 16 Pull the SATA data cable connector away from its socket on the
  logic board.
TOOLS USED ON THIS STEP: Metal Spudger $2.95 Pull the SATA data cable
  connector away from its socket on the logic board. The SATA connector
  on most iMacs tends to stick in its socket on the logic board. If you
  are having trouble disconnecting the SATA cable, insert a metal
  spudger or any other thin tool into the gap between the SATA connector
  and its socket and twist the spudger's shaft to safely separate the
  two pieces.  Add a comment
Step 17 Disconnect the CPU fan by pulling its connector up off the
  logic board. Disconnect the CPU fan by pulling its connector up off
  the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 18 Disconnect the hard drive power cable by pulling its connector
  up off the logic board. Disconnect the hard drive power cable by
  pulling its connector up off the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 19 Use the flat end of a spudger to pry the AirPort Extreme
  antenna connector up off the AirPort Extreme card. Use the flat end of
  a spudger to pry the AirPort Extreme antenna connector up off the
  AirPort Extreme card.  Add a comment
Step 20 If necessary, remove any tape covering the left speaker cable.
  If necessary, remove any tape covering the left speaker cable.  Add a
  comment
Step 21 Lift the left and right speakers out of the rear case.
Lift the left and right speakers out of the rear case. The speaker
  cables are still attached to the logic board. The right speaker cable
  may be routed under the power button cable or the CPU fan cable (or
  both). If so, disconnect both cables by pulling their connectors away
  from the face of the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 22 Disconnect the speaker cable connector by pulling its
  connector away from the socket on the logic board. Disconnect the
  speaker cable connector by pulling its connector away from the socket
  on the logic board. Pull the connector parallel to the face of the
  logic board.  Add a comment
Step 23 Logic Board Pull the power button cable connector up off its
  socket on the logic board. Pull the power button cable connector up
  off its socket on the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 24 Disconnect the ambient light sensor by pulling its connector
  up off the socket on the logic board. Disconnect the ambient light
  sensor by pulling its connector up off the socket on the logic board. 
  Add a comment
Step 25 Disconnect the following four connectors by pulling them
  straight away from their sockets: Disconnect the following four
  connectors by pulling them straight away from their sockets: Camera
  cable. Microphone cable. Optical drive fan cable. Hard drive fan
  cable.  One comment
Step 26 Disconnect the optical drive thermal sensor cable from its
  socket on the logic board. Disconnect the optical drive thermal sensor
  cable from its socket on the logic board.  Add a comment
Step 27 Remove the two 7 mm fine thread T10 Torx screws securing the
  optical drive clip to the logic board. Remove the two 7 mm fine thread
  T10 Torx screws securing the optical drive clip to the logic board.
  Remove the optical drive clip.  Add a comment
Step 28 Squeeze the two optical drive bracket ears together while
  pulling the drive up toward yourself.
Squeeze the two optical drive bracket ears together while pulling the
  drive up toward yourself. It may be helpful to hold the logic board
  down near the optical drive connector when pulling the drive toward
  yourself to avoid both components lifting together. Pull the optical
  drive away from the side of the rear case and remove it from the iMac.
  If your optical drive is particularly stubborn to remove, try the
  method used in the optical drive guide from the A1144 G5 iMac.  2
  comments
Step 29 De-route the bundle of power supply cables from behind the
  hard drive bracket. De-route the bundle of power supply cables from
  behind the hard drive bracket. Some logic boards can be removed
  without taking out the hard drive.  Add a comment
Step 30 Press the hard drive bracket down to free it from the rear
  case, then rotate the top of the drive toward yourself. Press the hard
  drive bracket down to free it from the rear case, then rotate the top
  of the drive toward yourself. Pressing the top of the hard drive
  bracket down to release it from the rear case requires a substantial
  amount of force, so we recommend laying your iMac stand-side down on a
  table to avoid knocking it over.  Add a comment
Step 31 Lift the hard drive (with cables attached) straight up off its
  lower pins and remove it from the rear case. Lift the hard drive (with
  cables attached) straight up off its lower pins and remove it from the
  rear case. Be mindful of the hard drive cables, as they may catch on
  the logic board during removal.  Add a comment
Step 32 Unplug the power supply cable bundle from the logic board by
  simultaneously depressing the locking mechanism (toward yourself) with
  a spudger and pulling the connector away from its socket. Unplug the
  power supply cable bundle from the logic board by simultaneously
  depressing the locking mechanism (toward yourself) with a spudger and
  pulling the connector away from its socket. The locking mechanism
  faces the rear case.  Add a comment
Step 33 Remove the following six screws securing the logic board to
  the rear case: Remove the following six screws securing the logic
  board to the rear case: Three fine-thread 7 mm T10 Torx. Three
  coarse-thread 7 mm T10 Torx.  Add a comment
Step 34 Be sure to touch the chassis before proceeding to discharge
  any static. Be sure to touch the chassis before proceeding to
  discharge any static. Grab the logic board from its left edge and
  rotate it out from the rear case, using your other hand to press the
  RAM arms in enough to clear the rear case. Be mindful of the ports
  attached to the rear of the logic board as they may stick to the rear
  case.  Add a comment
Step 35 Pull the logic board straight out of the rear case, minding
  any cables that may get caught. Pull the logic board straight out of
  the rear case, minding any cables that may get caught.  Add a comment
Step 36 Optical Drive Fan Pull the optical drive fan off the posts
  protruding from the rear case and lift it out of rear case, de-routing
  cables as necessary. Pull the optical drive fan off the posts
  protruding from the rear case and lift it out of rear case, de-routing
  cables as necessary.  Add a comment
Step 37 Hard Drive Fan Pull the hard drive fan away from the rear
  case. If necessary, de-route the cables from under the chassis.

