Q: Using other glyphs in Arabic on the iPad Arabic Keyboard on iPad uses GeezaPro font and obviously keys are limited compared to available glyphs, but what should I do if I want to use a glyph that doesn't have its own key. Is there any way I can add/use it somehow?  The reason I need to do this is so I can write in Persian/Farsi.

A: If you search the app store for "persian" you should find a few keyboard apps which will make the characters you are missing and which may be useful for email and some other purposes.

A: You may be able to access what you want by using Character Viewer (Edit > Special Characters).  It would help to know exactly what it is you think cannot be made from the keyboard.

A: As far as I know, not with the "soft" onscreen keyboard. Unfortunately the Arabic keyboard doesn't have the "tap and hold for more glyphs" feature that some of the other keyboards support.
But there is support for 3 different hardware keyboard layouts (Arabic, Arabic PC, Arabic QWERTY), so perhaps with an external Bluetooth keyboard you could gain access to more glyphs.
Another alternative would be to use a 3rd-party app like Unikey or Unicode Maps that gives you access to a full range of Unicode glyphs and lets you build a custom keyboard. Not as elegant and usable as having what you need built in to the OS, but it could be a stopgap solution until Apple further improves their Arabic support.
Make sure to submit feedback to Apple to let them know your language needs better support! 

A: Yes, there is! Here's how:
First find the character/glyph you want to enter on the Char Map or online or whatever way you prefer. 
Then go to iPad Settings > General > Keyboards > Text Replacementand tap the + button on the top corner. Now paste the glyph in the Phrase field, and enter the desired keyboard shortcut for it. Then press Save.
This way whenever you want to enter that particular glyph, you can just type in your shortcut on your Arabic keyboard and it will replace it with your desired character.
For instance I used to use the Arabic ' ك' to input the Persian equivalent 'ک' when there was no Persian keyboard available in iOS. You can also use the same approach to input longer phrases when typing a specific shortcut.
