Q: Can't edit/delete some events on my iPad's calendar I've had a problem since upgrading my iPad to IOS 5 in that I can't seem to edit/delete some events on my calendar. It mainly seems to be repeating events that have the problem. Any ideas about what may be causing this?

A: Have you checked your www.iCloud.com account to see if the events are editable/duplicated or have any errors in fact. Also check your icloud settings and make sure in (Mail-Contacts-Calendars) you only have one calendar synced, and make that one you iCloud one.

A: I had the same problem.  I upgraded from Snow Leopard to Lion and lost my Quicken (didn't upgrade Quicken before going to Lion)... and with it all my info attached in my calendar. Any calendar events "attached" to Quicken in my calendar on my ipad can not be edited or deleted now. This was all originally created on my Mac.
The Fix:
What I did to correct this was, on my iPad, in iCal, touch the "Calendars" button in the top left corner.  In "From my Mac" I unchecked the Quicken Data calendar.  All the events disappeared.  I created a new calendar and recreated the events I wanted.  Everything works as expected for me now!

A: You can fix this if you use a mac, delete event from your iCal then sync iPhone in itunes and go to info, calendar, sync whatever you save as, i.e, home, work, etc then push sync. If you deleted event from your iCal once you sync the event goes away

A: I had an event in my iPad but it didn't appear on the iPhone or the Mac.  
There was no delete or decline option, but as soon as I changed the calendar it was sitting in, Decline showed up and I was able to remove it.

A: I was having this problem also, Here is what I did, Hope it helps someone.
I had made Calendar events on my iMac which ranged over a week or more, and I was unable to edit these on my iPad.
I noticed that if the event was only 1 day I had no problem editing on the iPad , and also that I could edit all events even the longer ones from my iPhone or from iCloud.
What is needed on the iPad is to change from month view to day view and then I can edit the long events just fine. 
