Q: Two external displays without Thunderbolt I need to buy a new laptop (Mac) for work and the top priority for me is having at least two displays.
Unfortunately, due to budget limitations I cannot buy Apple Thunderbolt Displays. Now, and correct me if I’m wrong, the Apple Thunderbolt Display currently seems to be the only Thunderbolt display out there.
Is it possible, using MBP or MacBook Air, to use two external displays that do not s use Thunderbolt? … Without using additional hardware (like the Matrox multiplexer used elsewhere – this doesn’t work, and the DisplayLink USB to DVI adapter drivers don’t work yet on OS X Lion).

A: No - you need at least an USB to whatever input your third display (the second external display) accepts. 

I suppose some would say you could use another computer and use some sort of virtual screen / VNC software to have the system make a virtual screen and send that data over the network to the other computer to push to the third display.

A: There are issues with specific older models of Mac (particularly those with nVidia graphics), but I've been using a DisplayLink adapter with Lion for several months without problem. My secondary display is even rotated 90 degrees.
Beta drivers are available here and known issues are described here.

A: Check out ScreenRecycler. You'll need another computer, but even an old junker will work.

A: I've been using a DisplayLink USB to DVI adapter on Lion since the day Lion shipped, and I haven't had any trouble with it.  Actually, it's been better than with Snow Leopard because the new beta driver doesn't crash like the SL driver did.

A: Depending on your definition of "additional hardware", the ZOTAC Mini-DisplayPort to Dual HDMI Adaptor might be a viable solution. It's more like a cable/adaptor than the Matrox box, and it has a price tag around $50. I have not seen this gadget in action first-hand, but a friend of mine has one, and he is very happy with it.
Google tells me that several stores carries the ZT-MDP2HD, including Newegg.
