Q: Any problems adding a new SSD to iMac 2011? I have an iMac 2011 mid-model. I bought this without a SSD, now I want to add one.
I heard the model have several problems, when it comes to adding extra SSD's. Including TRIM support and Temperature Sensor. But I want to add it if those problems are acceptable.
I want to know if there are any problems, with adding a SSD, and workarounds for the problems.
Is there any Apple certified SSD that I can purchase now or later? I will bring my iMac to Apple's service center, and let them to add it, to keep AppleCare.

Update.
I'm living in Korea. And here is no Apple retail store and Genius bar. So I asked this question here.

A: The German IT magazine computerbase has done tests comparing the efficiency of  TRIM and garbage collection in SSDs of 2010.
The result is that recent SSD have a very effecient garbage collection so that the performace difference to TRIM vanishes. (source, German)
Upgrading the HDD on a Macbook does not void the warrenty (source). However, it does on a Macbook Pro (I think). Since replacing the hard drive on an iMac will require lots of tinkering, I'm pretty sure that you will void your warrenty.
Detailed guides as to how you replace your harddrive can be found here:
They include pictures, step-by-step guide and info on what kind of screwdrivers you need.

A: I asked a Genius about replacing hard drives in Macs, and he replied that there is no problem warranty wise as long as it's not an iMac. For this machine only you need a technician to do the work. Has to do with temp sensors.
As a side note, RAM modules in every Mac except the MacBook Air (because they are soldered on the motherboard) can be replaced by the user without voiding the warranty, including the iMac.
Also, unless I am mistaken, if you did not order the iMac with an SSD built-in you cannot put one in later on as it misses the support brackets for a 2.5 in HD, therefore it gets tricky. Perhaps an Apple tech can prove me wrong. This is really odd from Apple, because it must not cost a 100$ to put support in the machine, and it gives options to buyers… Oh well.
