Q: Replacement for Quicken 2007 Now that I've upgraded to Lion, Quicken 2007 is history. I need a good replacement that automatically downloads credit card and bank statements from major cards and banks. I need to track investments, too. Importing of old Quicken data would be required, too. Quicken Essentials doesn't fit the bill for me.
I have looked at Money and Moneywell. Both have their strong points, but they don't do everything on the list above. Moneydance is written in Java and I don't like the non-Mac OS look and feel.
Thanks for your suggestions.

A: In an attempt to replace Quicken 2003 for Windows, I ended up on Moneywell. It has a companion iOS app which allows me to enter transactions on the go and sync via Dropbox.
It isn't perfect, but I like it.

A: I looked at a number of alternatives before concluding that there isn't an alternative as comprehensive as Quicken/Windows.  You are going to have to choose between sacrificing some functionality with a native Mac app (hoping for future updates) or running Quicken Windows under Boot Camp/VMware/Parallels/Virtual Box.
iBank is another alternative although Moneydance seems to win most of the time when people compare them (hating the Moneydance look all the way).

A: iBank from IGG software is available in the Mac App Store, and has been a great replacement (and upgrade) from quicken. It also includes direct Quicken import. 
They are also running a 'Spring Break Sale' That will take off 25% if you are currently using Moneywell, Quicken for Mac, or Quicken Essentials. 


A: You might look at SEE Finance. Lacks tags, otherwise well-featured. (Not affiliated with company.)

A: Intuit has just announced that they are releasing a Lion-compatible version of Quicken 2007 "soon". Press release.
Note that they are not announcing a Quicken 2012 for Lion. They are merely promising a patched version of Quicken 2007.

A: Squirrel is available in the Mac App Store and works quite nicely. 

A: moneydance is good, I've used it for 5 yrs. Makes good backups automatically, pretty easy to set it up the way you want.
