Q: Can I use a non "me.com" address to send email with iCloud? I will  be buying an iPad and will want to use iCloud.  However, I want to use a non "@me.com" address to send email from/reply to.  Is this possible when you sign up for iCloud?  Thanks

A: Using iCloud doesn't necessarily means you'll have to use Mail on iCloud. You can still use your current mail provider to send/receive email on your iPad. Providing you can connect to your current provider using IMAP, Exchange or POP.
You can also create your iCloud account without having a @me.com address. I use my @gmail.com address as my Apple ID to connect to iCloud to sync Contacts, Calendars, etc.

A: If you use iCloud mail, then you can not use any other email address than me.com.
You can forward the mails from your old email to the me.com, but if you send an email from iCloud then the sender will be me.com.
This is a serious issue with iCloud, and I personally hate it.

A: Yes you can.
Because of security [mainly spam and phishing] issues, respectable outgoing mail (smtp) server operators will only allow you to send mail from an email address and domain that they know you have the right to use.
This isn't just picky,  it's an essential part of the mechanism that has cut down SPAM.  Apple have no way of knowing whether you have the right to send from xxx@acme.com. If you haven't that right, and Apple lets you use it to spam, then they are likely to end up with their servers being blacklisted and then none of us can send email.  Hence the restriction.
But your domain service provider has that knowledge.  They are already probably forwarding you incoming email, or mapping your incoming email server address across to Apple. Ask them if they have an outgoing smpt server that you can use to send mail,  and use it rather then Apple's outgoing server.  
This may seem like a hack, but it is actually a perfectly rational setup.  The outgoing email will still get put in your iCloud out box, so there is no downside.
What would be nice is if Apple would take on the whole domain name management issue.  

A: You can, but it's a bit of a hack.
You can choose to use an different SMTP server to the normal one, as is the SMTP server for iCloud that rejects the use of an email address that doesn't match up.  You can point it to a Google GMAIL server, and then get Google to change the "send from" address to match what you need to use.

A: No - iCloud servers will not send "spoofed" email so you'll need to arrange a second server to receive that email and send it.
There are several ways people configure this, the popular ones being:


*

*configure an alternate SMTP server for outbound mail by setting up iCloud manually

*use DNS and a proxy to handle the traffic

*setting up two accounts on iOS / Mac and letting iCloud send from the alternate account.


A: In my view, the answer is simple: when you setup your iCloud account you can use whatever email address you want, (I have setup iCloud accounts with Yahoo.com email addresses as well as an iCloud.com email address).
