Q: Can Messages display the timestamp of every incoming message? I was chatting with someone via Messages.app on my iPhone, and they sent me a message saying "call me in 20 minutes".  I was away from my phone when they sent it, so I didn't know when they sent the message, and therefore didn't know when to call.
I know that Messages.app displays a start time for new conversations, but I just want to get the time of a specific message.
Tap-and-hold and double-tap on the message just give a "Copy" context item.
How can I see the time of an incoming message?

A: iOS 7, which is now in the wild, can indeed show timestamps for every message. Just slide your finger right to left in a conversation.

Image: The Verge
(I literally yelled "finally!" while sitting at my desk when I read about this.) 

A: I managed to view the timestamp of the most recent message by going back to the main Messages menu.
That displayed the most recent activity timestamp next to each conversation, and since I hadn't sent a response, the most recent message was the "call in 20 minutes" message.
I still can't find a way to get at the timestamp of an arbitrary incoming message, but this addressed my immediate problem.

A: The primary answer to this question is no:
On the iOS device itself, from within Messages.app, no matter if the messages are standard SMS, or iMessage; only the occasional timestamps, and the latest message time on the overview list, show times. There is no other mechanism for displaying message times.

A: In the messages index view where it shows all messages to from everyone use the search feature at top and search for text specific to the message you need to know the time of and it will show time next to it when found , only hour and minutes though 

A: You can jailbreak your phone, then install SMS Timestamp. This will let you see timestamps for every message.

A: In iOS 5 (and in iOS 6, I suspect), if you are willing to delete some messages, you can find the timestamp of ANY message if you delete the ones which precede it in the conversation "snippet", which i describe in somewhat more detail on http://kenamored.blogspot.com/2014/04/how-to-reveal-ios-5-imessages-timestamps.html

A: Use the "Compact view". You'll see the time stamp of the message on the right hand side. View > Messages > Show as Compact

A: Try double tapping each message (in messenger, not text messages, for that it's s simple swipe to the right)
