Q: Why does Siri not set Geofence reminders on iPhone when used in conjuction with an Exchange account? I have been trying to use Siri to set a Geofence reminder to no avail. Apparently there seems to be some type of conflict with the phones local reminders and syncing (via Active sync) with Exchange servers in general. Siri will setup a standard reminder but review of the created task none of the Geofence options are present. I have read through Apple's forums and other 3rd party forumns. I have found a thread on Apple's forum that can be found here that involves turning off reminders and the Exchange account and enabling them on your iCloud account. Upon testing, this potential work around was unsuccessful for me (Siri still refuses to utilize Geofence options). I am currently syncing to an Exchange 2010 server (mail, contacts, calendars and reminders). Can any one provide or point to:


*

*A canonical answer as to why this occurs?

*Are there any potential workarounds that will allow an Exchange account
and built in Siri Geofence functionality to work in tandem with
each other?


The information that I have been able to locate to date reflects conflicting views with some parties saying it can be done and others saying it can't be done. I have yet to find a definitive answer on Apples general site.

A: After further research is seems as though Siri creates "Tasks" on my Exchange server, which don't allow geofencing. What is needed is an iCloud "Reminder", which does allow for Geofence reminders. You need to set up Reminders to use iCloud by default as follows:


*

*Make sure your iCloud account is setup online, and enable the same
iCloud account on your iPhone.

*Make sure that the notifications and calendars are syncing with
iCloud on your iPhone.



Next you will need to navigate to Settings >> Reminders:



Once these steps are completed the reminders functionality (with geofencing alerts) should work properly (even with Exchange). You will obviously need to designate Geo points via a contact entry with address information on the iPhone itself for this to work (i.e. Work, Home, etc..). There is a lot of good information on this question along with a trouble shooting process in this Apple forum thread located here. Please note that this process was tested on an iPhone 5 with iOS 6 (build 10A405) on an AT&T cellular network.

A: I assume Geofencing isn't available on Exchange as there is no field for it. Can you keep your reminders on the iCloud account instead of on Exchange?
