Q: There is an app that can do screenshots in MacOSX Lion, what's the name? There is an app that can do screenshots in MacOSX Lion, what's the name? 
It comes from the OS, not a 3rd party app.

A: You can also take screenshots with Preview via File -> Take Screen Shot. This gives you the following options:


*

*From Selection...

*From Window...

*From Entire Screen


Each screenshot is captured in a separate Preview window so it is mostly useful to collect screenshots and process them afterwards.

A: The built-in application is called Grab. You can find it under the Utilities folder in Applications.
You can also use keyboard shortcuts to take screen shots. Here's a quick guide from Apple:

In Mac OS X, you can use simple keyboard shortcuts to do all sorts of things, including capturing images of what’s on your Mac screen. For example, you can take a screen shot of your entire screen by holding down the Command and Shift keys and pressing a 3.
If you hold down the Command and Shift keys and press 4, Mac OS X turns the cursor into crosshairs you can use to select whatever portion of your display you’d like to capture in a screen shot.
If you immediately hit the Spacebar after typing Command-Shift-4, Mac OS X replaces those crosshairs with a little camera. Using the camera, you can take a screen shot of the Dock, the entire menu bar, a single open menu, the desktop, or any open window.


A: I generally use the built-in screen grab utility. If you hold down the Control key in addition to the other keys (i.e. Command-Shift-4), the captured image will be sent to the clipboard rather than being saved as a file. I find this useful when I'm pasting the screen grab directly into a document.
Apple's documentation of this feature is available from the Help Menu. Search for Shortcuts for taking pictures of the screen
There are a number of third-party applications that offer various enhancements to the screen grabbing experience. For example if you plan to do a lot of post-production manipulation, Layers will save every element on the screen as a separate layer of a .psd document.
