Q: Are files saved to iCloud via 3rd party applications accessible from icloud.com web interface through browser? I've recently seen third-party apps like Smultron and iA Writer mentioning in their Mac App Store descriptions that they support iCloud syncing.
Are the files saved to iCloud via these apps accessible from icloud.com? How do they appear? Are they downloadable to e.g. a PC for which the app that saved the file is unavailable?
I'm asking whether or not I am able to access the files with my credentials from (any) web-terminal, all foil hats aside.

A: You cannot access individual files on iCloud other than the ones made with the iWork suite and that are available on the iWork section of the icloud.com website.
When introducing iCloud, Steve Jobs mentioned that Apple did not think of this service as a big folder in the cloud--a direct contrast with Dropbox. I wrote about this before the launch of iCloud on this Ask Different answer. In short, iCloud is meant to be app-centric. 
I would not be surprised if the iWork section of the icloud.com website went away once native iCloud support is added to Keynote, Numbers and Pages. Like it or not, this makes business sense, as it encourages app purchasing. 
Hope this helps. 

A: The answer is no.  iCloud does not offer access to the files from the website.

A: iCloud will only let you access iWork Documents, Mail, Calendars, Contacts and the Find my iPhone app.
You cannot even access some of the data created on Apple apps on iCloud such as Notes, Photo Stream, or music and video, let alone other 3rd party apps.

A: Yes theoretically, apparently iCloud is based on a JavaScript web framework called SproutCore, meaning you could access them directly by using a greasemonkey script that modified iCloud's web interface.
iCloud users should be aware that their data is not end-to-end encrypted, meaning Apple employees, data centers with whom they contract, law enforcement, and hackers could all potentially obtain plaintext copies of any data stored in iCloud. 
There are other cloud storage providers like Wuala and SpiderOak who encrypt everything from your own machine.  DropBox does not encrypt your data. 
